CHURCHES
The number of Churches in Naples rivals with that of Rome, there are more than 350, each of them might be called a Museum for the richness of their monuments and pictures, and it would require many volumes to give a full description of them we therefore cite some of the principal. The Cathedral ( Duomo ) It dates from 1299 and is one of the largest and most ancient that Naples can boast of. There were anciently in its place two temples one to Apollos, and the other to Neptune. It was built by Charles I of Anjou, and finished by Charles the 2. Having fallen down in 1456 by an earthquake, it was repaired by Alfonso 1, by the support of several noble families, the coat of arms of which were engraved on the pillars. This large church contains valuable monuments. Over the large door the tombs of Charles I, and his wife Clemenza are seen. The font on the left is formed of a large ancient vase of Egyptian Casalta, held by a porfid pedestal; it was one time consacrated to Baecus. The sacristy rich with valuable furniture, contains also several portraits of Neapolitan Archbishops and their tombs. Near the sacristy door the tomb of Andrew, the husband of Johanna 1, strangled at Aversa. The S. January chapel, called the Treasure, is very richly furnished with silver statues, furniture, and sacred vases of great value and paintings by clever artists. The chapel alone is valued five milions of franks The blood of s. January is deposited in it, the liquifation of which happens three times a year. St. Martin Certosa. Placed under the castle S.Ermo was founded by Charles the son of Robert of Anjeu in 1400 contains several frescos by Miccio Spadaro, and Bellisario, and some pictures by Spagnoletto Guido Reni, and Stanzione, on the left of the altar another by Spagnoletto representing the Communione of the Apostles by Christ, and saveral more of great merit. The situation of this magnific building, is one of the finest ever seen, and to enjoy it the more it is necessary entering the garden, and particulary the Belvedere. To the singular beauties of nature it adds a great many prices of art. Nothing can be compared to the richness of the church the fine ornaments of which are joined to taste. A museum has lately been formed there by care of Commendatore Fiorelli Director of the National Museum, which adds much interest to this church, and which may be classified among the first in Italy. 