§ 9. — GENERAL HINTS. 
Travelling in the most frequented parts of S. Italy differs hardly, at all from that in other parts of Europe, and the cost may be estimated, under the usual conditions and limitations, at from 1l to 1l 5s. a day; less, discourse, when a stay is made at one place, or when the party is numerous. The usual time selected is between October and April; but whoever wants to see the scenery in many parts of Italy in the perfection of its beauty, should go there from May to September. The heat is great, but, in the mountain country especially, it is not too much for the healthy traveller. The winter months had better be spent in Naples, or some large town, as the cold is often very severe, and there are no means of providing against it in the country. Warm clothing is essential in the winter, and even in summer it is well not to be too lightly clad. Flannel or silk should always be worn next to the skin. The hour after sunset is the time when colds and fevers are most easily caught. Any necessity for care in the matter of diet must depend in a great measure on the individual, but too much iced water and unripe fruit should be avoided by every one in hot weather. Avoid long exposure to the direct rays of the sun by carrying an umbrella that will serve as a sunshade. Blue glasses will be found of great service in diminishing the excessive glare. It will be found a prudent precaution to close the bedroom windows at night, and it is well to arrange the time so as to rest during the excessive heat of midday. It should be remembered that illness, which may afterwards assume a fever type, is often due to over-fatigue, caused by the absurd habit of rushing about from morning to night trying to see and do everything in a few days, or even hours. Patience and flea-powder are two essential requisites for the traveller in S. Italy; he will have constant need of both by day and night. In all cases of dispute and bargain it is better for him — unless his knowledge of Italian is quite equal to the occasion — to say nothing, but to refer the matter to some competent third person. In shops, as elsewhere, unless there are fixed prices printed, more is always asked than the article or service is worth, and than will ultimately be taken. The buonamano, under whatever shape it appears, whether as a mancia, da bere, bottiglia &c., is as unmitigated a nuisance as the Arabic bak-sheesh. It must, however, be submitted to, but the amount should always be kept down to the smallest possible sum, as undue liberality will only have the effect of causing other candidates to press their claims on the injudicious donor. Begging is unfortunately still a national industry; the best way to get rid of the nuisance is to give a very minute coin. Of brigandage it is difficult to speak: that it has been very much put down is certain, but it is equally certain that it still exists in many parts of the mountain districts. It will be wise oft ravellers before diverging from the more ordinary beaten tracts, to obtain information from the authoities as to the safety of the district they intend traversing. For skeleton tours and hints as to the most advantageous arrangement of time, the reader is referred to the Introduction to the Handbook for Northern Italy, and to p. 190 of the present Handbook.  
Italian Adventurers. (A Caution to English Ladies.) 
Too much care cannot be taken in forming acquaintances with Southern Italians. One of their chief aims is to marry for money, and keep their families and themselves in idleness. It is a common complaint among them that English wives do not take a beating kindly. The long experience of one who was perfectly qualified to give an opinion on the subject was that, without exception, every Englishwoman married to a Neapolitan was miserable. Englishwomen by marriage with a foreigner forfeit their nationality, and are precluded from seeking redress from British consuls or tribunals. It is a common practice for Foreigners to assume titles, and the authorities never seem to take any steps to prevent it, although it is an offence against the law. 