CAPRI. 
Inns:
The best inns are in the village, about 1/4 hr distance from the landing-place.
The Hotel Tiberio, kept by Ross, whose wife is a Herefordshire woman, in the palace of Queen Joanna, is very good, with sitting-rooms, numerous bed-chambers, and large salle-a-manger, some of the rooms commanding a lovely view over the Marina and towards Naples.
The Victoria, kept by 
Pagano, a very civil man, where the fare is excellent, is on the outskirt of the town, and is much frequented by artists and persons who look more to economy.
At both these hotels arrangements at the rate of a scudo or 12 carlini a day can be made.
The Hotel di Londra, near the Marina, kept by Petagna, will be found convenient for persons visiting only the Grotta Azzurra, and returning to Naples by the steamer.
Arrangements for board may be made also here; for accommodations for a longer period, and especially for invalids, see paragraph on Climate, at p. 268.
Sorrento is one of the points from which travellers find it most convenient to visit Capri.
It is about 8 1/2 geog m distant from it, 6 from Massa, and more than 14 from the Mole of Naples. 
The hire of a six-oared boat from Sorrento for the day is 4 piastres, with 4 rowers 3 piastres, which will be quite large enough in moderate weather; Giargiulo's and the boats from the other hotels are very quick (the Capri boats are also good, the sailors being more experienced than elsewhere in the bay.
Majali Marciano and Giovanni Cuccollilo can be recommended, their charges with  men to Naples 4 piastres; the voyage is often performed in 3 hrs.).
The traveller who means to devote only a day to the excursion should start from Sorrento very early, as it will require several hrs to examine, even superficially, the principal objects of interest in the island.
A calm day should be chosen to prevent disappointment in seeing the Grotta Azzurra and the Grotta Verde. 
Those who do not object to a longer sea-passage will find a cheap and easy mode of going to the island from Naples by the market or fish boats, which start almost daily at 1 o'clock pm from the beach of the Marinella opposite the Porta di Massa at Naples, returning to Naples every day.
The price of the passage by these boats is 2 or 3 carlini.
During the spring and summer a small steamer plies between Naples and Capri, leaving at 9 am. and returning at 4 pm, but seldom giving more time than to see the Grotta Azzurra and the village: fares, to go and return, 24 carlini.
The sailing, however, of this steamer cannot be depended upon, although announced, as the owners will refuse to despatch it if a certain number (12) passengers do not offer. 
A sailing mail-boat runs daily between Capri and Naples, leaving the island at a very early hour and returning in the afternoon: this now offers a great facility and economy for visiting Capri. 
The voyage from Sorrento is generally made in summer in less than 2 hrs, and in fine weather is delightful, passing the Cape of Sorrento, which will enable the visitor to see the extensive substructions of the Villa of Pollius Felix; from thence coasting by the Marina of Massa, soon after which the sea-breeze begins to be felt, coming through the straits of Capri, and which being fair allows a straight course to be shaped for the Marina of Capri.
The view of the coast on the l as far as Cape Minerva, and of the precipitous cliffs of the island before us, is very fine. 
Capri is separated from the Sorrentine Promontory by a deep channel, 4 m in breadth.
It is 3 1/2 m in length, and 2 in breadth at its W portion, being divided about the middle into two mountain-masses, of which the loftiest on the W rises about its centre, called Monte Solaro, to nearly 1800 ft above the sea.
The E division is about 860 ft in its highest part, and terminates in cliffs which plunge precipitously into the sea.
The village of Capri is situated in the depression between the two mountainous portions of the island; and that of Anacapri on the table-land that slopes from the highest part of the island to the NW point.
The circumference of the island is about 10 m.
There are only two places in the island where a landing can be effected with safety, the principal one on the side of Naples and Sorrento, the Marina Grande.
On the approach of strangers the peasantry bring down donkeys and portantine to the beach for hire, and, as the continual ascents are excessively fatiguing, the traveller will do well to secure their services.
The charge is 4 carlini a day for each donkey, exclusive of a buonamano to the driver. 
The cicerone will expect half a piastre for his day's attendance, or a ducat for himself and animal.
Felice Savarese is an active and intelligent fellow, and can be recommended: he has small horses, which for gentlemen will be better suited for the work of exploration than donkeys.