SAN MARTINO ( D 4 ). 
This celebrated Carthusian convent, now suppressed, and converted into a Museum, contains numerous works of art of no great value or importance, but is well worth a visit for the sake of its fine position and magnificent view. Adm. as at the Museo Nazionale. The easiest way of reaching San Martino from the lower part of the town is to take the Wire-rope Rly. from the Rione Amedeo or from Monte Santo ( fare 25 c. ). The Steam Tramway which passes along the Corso Vittorio Emanuele stops to set down passengers close to the several points where donkeys stand on hire for the remainder of the ascent. Carriage from the hotel, 1 1/2 fr.; two horses, 2 1/4 frs. In the Court, which has a well adorned with columns, are inscriptions, sarcophagi, and various fragments. Crossing it we reach an archway, and turn to the rt. into the vaulted laboratory, hung with banners. Opening out of this on the l. are two halls, the first of which contains some good works of Salvator Rosa, with many indifferent paintings by late Neapolitan artists, and the State Barge of Charles III.; in the second hall are battle-pieces and a State Coach, used by Victor Emanuel on entering the city in 1860. Returning to the Court, we enter a long Corridor, half way down which, on the l., is a room containing Models of Italian Fortresses, including S. Elmo, S. Martino, Gaeta, Trani, Monopoli, Bari, and Aquila. Opposite, on the rt., a passage leads to the * Presepio, called by the guides Life in Naples, a most interesting representation of the Nativity, with modern Neapolitan surroundings. At the end of the Corridor are the * Cloisters, a grand quadrangle, with 16 Doric columns of white marble on each side, and statues of saints by Fansaga and Vaccaro. Immediately to the l. on entering, a passage leads to the Church, begun in 1325 by order of Charles Duke of Calabria, but entirely rebuilt and reduced to its present form towards the middle of the 17th cent. It is approached by the small Audience Room, or Sala del Colloquio, and the Chapter-house, the frescoes on the roof of which are by Corenzio, and the wall paintings by Finoglia. The interior of the church is richly decorated with coloured marbles. The frescoes of the Ascension on the roof of the nave, and the twelve Apostles between the windows, are by Lanfranco. Over the principal entrance is a Deposition in oils by Stanzioni which, it is said, had become rather dark, and Spagnoletto persuaded the monks to allow him to wash it. Instead of cleaning it, he injured its effect by using some corrosive liquid. The result is still apparent, for Stanzioni, on being informed of this treachery, refused to retouch the painting, declaring that it should remain a monument of Spagnoletto's enmity. It "is splendid even in ruin: equal to the most feeling pictures of Van Dyck, and in its noble keeping and foreshortening of the dead body excelling all Neapolitans, including Spagnoletto," Cic. At the sides, Moses and Elias, by Spagnoletto, who also painted the twelve Prophets in the angles between the chapel-arches. The Choir is entered by a low screen inlaid with choice jaspers. The frescoes of the vault are by Cav. d'Arpino. The Nativity at the end is one of Guido's best works, but he died before it was completed. On the l. wall, the Last Supper, by Spagnoletto ( 1651 ), and the Washing of the Feet, by Caracciolo: on the rt., the Last Supper, by Stanzioni; and the Institution of the Eucharist, by pupils of Paolo Veronese. The marble ornaments of the church were designed by Fansaga, who sculptured the rosoni or colossal rosettes on the pilasters at the entrance to the chapels, in grey granite: the beautiful pavement in marble mosaic is by the Carthusian Presti. The high altar was designed by Solimena. The Chapels are full of indifferent works in oil and fresco by Neapolitan artists of the 17th cent. In the 2nd on the rt. a picture by Andrea Vaccaro represents the rebuilding of Lincoln Cathedral. On the l. of the choir is the beautiful Sacristy. The roof was painted by Cav. d'Arpino; the Ecce Homo is by Stanzioni; Peter's Denial, by Caravaggio; and the Crucifixion, by Cav. d'Arpino. The presses are in fine tarsia-work, with carved reliefs by Bonaventura Presti. The Tesoro adjoining contains the * Deposition from the Cross, the masterpiece of Spagnoletto over the altar; and on the vault the Trimnph of Judith by L. Giordano, said to have been painted in 48 hours, when he was 72 years old. The history of the Brazen Serpent on the vault over the altar is by the same artist. In the presses around are numerous relics, tastefully arranged. Returning to the Cloisters, we paas to the Museum. Room I. Silver cups, marble ornaments, and a reliquary. II. Majolica of late 17th-cent. date, from the Abruzzi. III. Venetian glass, ivory carvings, vestments, and porcelain. IV. Looking-glasses with painted figures. Hence we return through Room II. to Room VI., which contains groups of china from Capodimonte in Neapolitan costume. On the rt., seated in a recess, is a startling and life-like figure of the Dominican Fra Rocco ( 11 ). VII. The best of the Majolicas, representing various subjects from Scripture and Mythology. VIII. Military costumes under the Bourbons. The remaining rooms contain modern pictures and specimens of silk work. At the S.E. corner of the Cloisters is the * Belvedere, which commands a magnificent view of the whole city of Naples, its Bay, and the rich plains stretching towards Nola, backed by the distant Apennines.