Sorrento
Sorrento [Hotels — see p. iii.] (population, about 7,000) has attractions similar to those of Castellammare, and some peculiarly its own. Deep ravines border it on three sides, and on the fourth a deep precipice rising out of the sea. The walks in these ravines are charming, especially in the evening. In the Hotel Tramontano, from November to May, Church Service is held by an English chaplain. The church itself is one of the most comfortable and handsomely decorated English churches on the continent. The Tarantella, or National Dance, may be seen at the Hotel Tramontano. Sorrento is a good stopping-place, either in summer or in winter. (Steamers, see p. 128) In summer it is frequented chiefly by Italians for the bathing season, and for its cool northern aspect. All the hotels are situated in gardens, and have private roads and stairs descending to their bathing establishments. In winter visitors of every nationality frequent Sorrento, especially English and Americans. Hotels and lodging-houses are numerous; fish, fruit, wine, dairy produce, etc., plentiful and good; the neighbourhood replete with delightful excursions. Carriages, horses, donkeys, boats, etc., are provided for visitors, according to specified tariffs. Sorrento possesses in itself few antiquities or objects of interest. It was the birthplace of the poet Tasso, and the Hotel Tasso contains the room in which he laboured. His statue stands in the Piazza del Castello. The Cathedral is on the site of an ancient temple, of which two marble pillars support a canopy in the nave. La Sedile is a Museum, with Greek and Roman bas-reliefs, etc. Amongst the excursions which may be made from Sorrento may be noted the following: To Capo di Sorrento (1 1/2 mile), with Roman remains, etc.; Deserto, with monastery (fine views from the roof); Sant' Agata; the Telegrafo; Soprala Vaccina, to the Piccolo Sant' Angelo, descending on the east of Sorrento, six hours in all. Donkeys may be hired (see above). Santa Maria a Castello is visited by many on August 15th, to see the magical effect of Positano lit up for its fete. Numerous other walks and excursions will easily be discovered by enquiry. The road to Massa Lubrense, beyond the Capo di Sorrento, is a favourite evening drive or walk (2 1/2 miles), commanding as it does delightful points of view. From Massa excursions to Termini and to the Punta di Campanella. A new road has been made from Sorrento to Amalfi (p. 134), passing Meta, Positano, Praiano, and Conca — a magnificent drive of 15 miles. Splendid inland views between Meta and Positano, whence the beautiful coast is skirted all the way to Amalfi. At Sorrento the steamer calls from Naples en route for Capri and the Blue Grotto about 10.10 a.m.; in good wenther the voyage occupies about one hour; but when there is any force of wind from the north or east, the Blue Grotto is not accessible. 