TEMPLE OF APOLLO 
Strada della Marina. Excavated 1818. Reg. VII. ins. vn. 
On the left-hand side of the "Via Marina", and just in front of the side entrance of the "Basilica", is a public building - previously known as the temple of Venus, but on account of an Oscan inscription found in this place (now at Naples) it has been ascertained that it was a temple dedicated to Apollo. It is an edifice of very early origin, and was entirely destroyed by the earthquake of the year 63, but had been restored and finished at the time of the eruption of 79. The following inscription found here (now at Naples) recoi^ds some repairs and alterations: "Marcus Olconius Rufus, and Caius Ignatius Postumus Decemwir of justice, for the third time, bv a decree of the Decurions, bought the right of closing the openings for jooo sesterces, and erected a wzll as high as the roof itself. in order to prevent the people from looking into the Sanctuary". The centre open court was surrounded by 48 columns which formed a portico around it. Originally these columns were of the Ionic style, but were converted by means of stucco, into the Corinthian; this coating has now fallen off. Against the portico are five pedestals, arranged in pairs, which formerly bore five statues, that is, "Mercury" or "Maia", (marble hermae), "Apollo" and "Diana", (bronze statues), "Venus" and "Hermaphrodite" (marble statues). Those which are seen now, are copies. On the left-hand side of the portico, and just in the corner, are two small altars; a large one stands just in the middle of the open square, and bears the following" inscription, relating to the four donors, who were Magistrates of Pompeii: "Marcus Porcius. Lucius Sextilius, and the Aediles Gneius and A. Cornelius". The temple itself rises on a basement 7 1/2., ft. in height, and is approached by 13 steps. It was surrounded by a Corinthian colonnade, and had a facade of six columns. Within the "Cella" is the pedestal upon which the statue of Apollo stood. The Ionic column of Phrygian marble, which is seen on the left side of the 13 steps, had a sundial placed on it some time after its erection, and on a tablet jutting out from it, is an inscription, showing that it was made at the expense of the Duumvirs: Lucius Sepunius, and Marcus Herennius". Beyond the Cella and just on the right-hand side, is a chamber for the priests, decorated with paintings, which are almost destroyed by the ravages of time. This chamber formed the back entrance of the temple. 