1902

AUTOMOBILE RACE ENDED.

Renault Finished First and Three Contestants Claim the Honors in Paris-Vienna Contest.

VIENNA, June 29, -
The Paris-Vienna automobile race was finished here to-day. Marcel Renault arrived first, but was disqualified. He covered the distance from Paris to Vienna in 15 hours and 22 minutes, at an average speed of 82 kilometres (about 51 miles) an hour. Zborowski was second, Maurice Farman third, Baras fourth, Edmond fifth, and Hemery sixth.

Baron de Forest, who was seventh, was disqualified. On account of an accident to his motor car, S. F. Edge, an Englishman, was the twentieth to arrive. He denies reports circulated to the effect that he was disqualified, and cites as proof that he was declared winner of the James Gordon Bennett Cup.

Three of the contestants in the race claim to have won. Renault passed the winning point precisely at 2 o’clock. He was disqualified, however, for having failed to stop at the control station at Florisdorf, a suburb of Vienna, across the Danube, where the final racing time was to be taken. Instead, he dashed madly through the crowd of officials and timekeepers, and entered Vienna at full speed, scattering vehicles and pedestrians in all directions, and arriving at the Prater in eighteen minutes instead of the prescribed minimum of forty-five minutes from Florisdorf.

Zborowsky, although he arrived second, is believed to be too heavily handicapped by his previous day’s performance to win first place. It is expected that Maurice Farman will attain the coveted honor, his brother Henry coming second. The decision will probably be delayed three days, owing to the complicated calculations arising from the speed restrictions imposed upon the contestants in Switzerland and elsewhere along the route.

The final stage of the race was favored with glorious weather. Spectators lined the route for many miles into the country. The Austrian Automobile Club received the racers at Prater, where thousands of persons had gathered and cheered the arrivals.

Much sympathy was expressed over the ill-luck which befell the American representatives. The Englishmen who took part in the contest were also unfortunate. It is asserted that Edge, who was believed to have won the James Gordon Bennett Prize, will be disqualified on account of having received help from some peasants in extricating his machine from a bad place on the road. The International Committee will investigate the charges.

In the opinion of experts the race was the severest test of the capacity of automobiles ever imposed, the participants declaring that the roads over the Arlberg Pass and thence to Vienna are some of the worst in Europe. Every automobile covering the entire route in any reasonable time will be entitled to a place in the first rank of manufactures.

A striking feature of the race has been the success and endurance of the light cars, especially in mountain work.