October 15,1886

Edith Kingdon

Jay Gould, Railroad Tycoon, Visits the City of Ottawa. A Millionaires Appearance. "The Boy" George and His Bonny Bride
Not a solitary woman in this city was aware of the fact, until the Local-News appeared last night that Edith Kingdon, the actress, paid her first visit to Ottawa in her new role of Mrs. George J. Gould, yesterday afternoon. At twenty minutes past one in the afternoon, a special train consisting of the locomotive, a baggage car, a sleeper, a dining car and a regally decorated boudoir car arrived at the First street depot. The boudoir coach was the "Convoy," Jay Gould's personal car, and it brought to the city the railroad magnate, his son, George J. Gould, the latter's wife, pretty Edith Kingdon that was; H.S. Hopkins, second vice president of the Gould system; Capt. Shackford, commander of Gould's steam yatch the Atalanta, and officials of the M.P. system. Modesty cautions us not to mention that a Local-News reporter was also one of the party from the Osawatomie junction. The only other people on the car beside the trainmen, worthy of note were a conductor and a negro porter, who were duly impressed with the responsibilities of the positions they were occupying as menials to the great millionaire. The conductor was particularly enamored with himself and strutted about like a turkey gobler as the train halted here for twenty minutes, giving orders to every curious person who sought to gain a view of the glory of the interior of the car. Had it not been for his blue suit and brass buttons, the people would not doubt have taken him for the railroad magnate and Gould for the conductor. While waiting at the depot Messrs Gould and Hopkins engaged in conversation with station agent Lisk. The great railroad President has changed very little in the past few years. He still has the same sharp, black eye and his face wears its old time studious look. His full black beard has a considerable sprinkling of gray in it. He was dressed in a frock business suit of dark material, and wore a white crush - they call it "slouch" out here - hat, pulled down well over his forehead. George and his bride, who were greater objects of curiosity than the great financier, make quite a good looking couple. The young man is about twenty six years of age, somewhat taller than his father, but like him very slender. He has dark skin, jet black hair and moustache, and a dark brown eye. He wore a light frock suit of a small checked pattern, and a dark derby hat. While not exactly handsome, he is a rather a good looking young fellow, and has a very pleasant face. He walked about the platform, but was addressed by nobody. His wife looks enough like him to be taken for his sister. She is of a dark, olive complexion, and has a dark grey eye and dark hair. Her features are sharp and clean cut, and her mouth at times wears a pucker that is perfectly captivating. She can hardly be classed as a beauty, but is a certainly quite pretty, and has a most interesting and attractive face. Her tall, slender form was clad in a close fitting, neat tailor made traveling suit of dark blue woolen goods, ornamented with broad eroded trimmings. She donned a little black straw hat that was set off with a red wing and a bow of red ribbon as she stood upon the platform for a moment gazing with apparent interest at the little mill that is so great an eyesore to Supt. Leonard of the gas works, and carried in her hand a plain, wooden-handled red silk parasol. A foot that is not over small was encased in a low quartered shoe, just affording the slightest glimpse of a pretty ankle clad in black silk hose. To the representative of the press Mr. Gould, while courteous, showed little inclination to talk. The party, he said had been traveling the western roads controlled by him. There was no particular significance to the trip, it being a tour of inspection. His son was accompanying him on business also and had merely taken his bride along as she wanted to travel with him. Mr. Gould said he had no new pieces of railroad property in mind and contemplated no changes in the system. Vice President Hopkins was more talkative with respect to local interests. He manifested considerable interest in Ottawa, as evinced by his pertinent enquiries as to the volume of business done here, and how much of it his road is receiving. When interrogated as to whether or not the city would be made the end of a division he rather gave the impression that it was hardly probable. However if a proper spirit was shown by citizens, and the M.P. met half way and treated fairly by citizens - the company would most certainly do its share and put its properties in first-class condition. He said that in all likelihood the Topeka extension would be built in the immediate future, and smilingly intimated that shops would very probably be erected here. The party went out to the front of the Council Grove extension, and will return this evening.