MONDAY, OCTOBER 1,1888

MURDER IN WESTMINSTER

Shortly before eleven o'clock, on Saturday night, a man named John Brown murdered his wife Sarah by cutting her head nearly off, at the house at which they lived, No. 11, Regent-gardens, Regency-street, Westminster. The deceased was a laundress, and her husband is employed as a roadman in St. James's Park. On the 17th ult. she summoned him to the Westminster Police-court, before Mr. D'Eyncourt, for maintenance, on the ground of having been deserted for a period of six weeks. The deceased then produced a medical certificate to the effect that her husband's violent conduct and excitable temperament justified her in refusing to cohabit with him. The magistrate made no order for support, and the woman seems shortly afterwards to have very reluctantly resumed cohabitation with her husband, who was very jealous of her, and has frequently been heard to threaten her, asserting that she had been unfaithful - a statement for which there did not appear to be the slightest foundation.

On Saturday night, at ten minutes to eleven, a next-door neighbour heard the pair quarrelling in their room, which was a front apartment on the ground floor. The noise suddenly ceased, and a minute or two afterwards the man left the house hurriedly, loudly slamming the front door, and walked at once to the Rochester-row Police-station, where he told Inspector Fairey, A Division, who was on duty, that he had murdered his wife by cutting her throat. He handed the inspector a large spring-backed clasp-knife, which had marks of blood on it, as also had his clothes, and described how he had twice stabbed the woman in the neck. Detective-sergeant Waldock, of the Criminal Investigation Department, was at once despatched to investigate the matter, and found the deceased with her head nearly cut from her body in a pool of blood near the fireplace in the room. Dr. Archer, of Vincent-square, Westminster, was sent for, and he found the body still warm, but life was extinct. The doctor expressed the opinion that great force must have been employed to have cut the woman's throat in such a shocking way, for there were two distinct gashes, and the wind-pipe was severed. The two little children belonging to the deceased were crying in the passage, and were taken away by neighbours. The man Brown, who is forty-five years of age, a little older than the deceased, was subsequently formally charged with wilful murder, and he will be brought before the magistrate at the Westminster Police-court this morning. 