Tuesday, Mar 05,1895

Obituary: Mrs. Andrew Crosse, née Berkeley

A wide circle of scientific and literary friends will regret to learn that Mrs. Andrew Crosse died from syncope, resulting from influenza, on Saturday afternoon last, at the age of 68. She was the widow of Andrew Crosse, the celebrated electrician, who would, were he alive now be in 111th year. In July, 1850, Mr. Crosse, already an elderly man, married Miss Cornelia A. H. Berkeley, then a great beauty, and in her 23rd year. Five years later Mr. Crosse died, leaving a widow, with three little children. Mrs. Cross left Fyne Court, on the Quantock Hills, where her husband had been squire, and where his experiments had made him the legend of the neighbourhood, and resided at Comeytrowe-house, near Taunton. Encourage by Sir Roderick Murchison, she published, in 1857, the "Memorials of Andrew Crosse," a charming volume, full of graceful and vivacious reminiscences. The success of this biography did not tempt her, however, to very serious literary work until lately. She moved in all the best scientific society, wrote occasionally, and devoted herself to the education of her sons. For the last 30 years she had received a multitude of friends at her house in Delamere-terrace. Of late she has been persuaded by Mr. Bentley to contribute to Temple Bar articles on the distinguished friends with whom she had in earlier days been intimate—Faraday, Babbage, Walter Savage Landor, Robert and Elizabeth Browning, Kenyon and Kinglake, and others. These were collected into two volumes, in 1892, under the title of "Red-letter Days of my Life," and achieved a great success. Up to within a few weeks of her death, Mrs. Crosse was engaged on a second series of scientific reminiscences, which, it is hoped, were far enough carried to be bear publication. She was a women of remarkable social charm and sympathetic intelligence, knew a good story when she met with one, and could repeat it, either in conversation or in writing, with excellent effect.