ITALY

Mon 31 May 2004

Visiting the Blue Grotto was one of our funiest experiences. In the morning we took the train to Sorrento (4 Euro), then found our way down to the wharves and booked a fast ferry to Capri (12 Euro). This was a very comfortable ride out to the island. It is a warm 24C today. At Capri queued for 30 minutes to get into a small speedboat (16 Euro)which takes about 20 people and takes the tourists to the Blue grotto. Then at the Blue Grotto it is hilarious, as you have to clamber into a small rowboat and lie flat on the floor as the rower rows to a ticket booth (boat) to pay 16 Euro and then rows into the cave through a tiny gap in the rock wall. About 4 people fit into the rowboat. The guide then sings O Solo Mio and Volare while he rows about for about 2 minutes in the cave along with 6 other rowboats. All the guides are singing different songs at the same time and there is a cacophony of noise! Crazy, but it is nice and blue inside. We give a 5 Euro tip to the rower. This was Denise's big wish to do on the trip because she would be too old to do it on our next trip. Then back out the cave and climb from the rowboat into the speedboat and back to Capri.

We booked another fast ferry to Naples (24 Euro) which was about to leave. It takes 40 minutes and very comfortable. We walk around Naples and note the poverty and beggars. Rubbish and grafitti everywhere, also dingy apartment blocks and traffic is heavy (more motor scooters than Florence). We look at the beautiful Cathedral (Duomo) and the National Archeological Musuem with magnificent marble statues inluding the Farnese Bull. We then have to find the special railway station for the 'Circumvesuviana' which is train back to Pompeii. We jump on the train and ask a passenger if the train goes to Pompeii and also check with the conductor on the train. However it is the wrong train! It does go to Pompeii (the town) and bypasses the Pompeii Scavi (ruins) where our hotel is. So we get off and wait for another train back to the right station and go back to hotel and get some pizza on the way (again).