Day 269 Thursday 13th October 2016 – Naples 

Well I woke up feeling fine but I only had 2 glasses of the lovely red wine which was actually good, it was a little chilly so opted for breakfast inside instead of the terrace. Today we are off to Pompeii and I am apprehensive as I don’t want to be disappointed and I hope Scott likes it. Got the train from Napoli Porta Nolana station which is the first stop so there were plenty of seats but the next stop at Garibaldi where most tourists get on, so it quickly became packed out. Forty five minutes later we arrived at Pompeii passing all the tourist information kiosks which are trying to allude they are the ticket office to get onto the site and the main ticket office. We opted for a combination ticket including a few sites with the main ones being Pompeii and Herculaneum for 22 euro each. My first mission was a toilet stop so I left Scott in the queue and when I finally emerged after a long wait Scott was standing with the tickets and ready to go. 

I am not going to detail every villa, temple and thing we saw but I may comment on a few more abstract elements or quirky. The main difference this time is the addition of the thirty sculptures that have been done by the late Igor Mitoraj which are on display from May 2016 to January 2017. This has added an incredible visual aspect against the backdrop of Pompeii. Of course there is also the Amphitheatre which may be amongst the oldest in the Roman world but probably better known for Pink Floyd playing there in 1971 to an audience of zero except for the crew. There is a small exhibition in the corridors under the seating containing photos of the band and information about Pink Floyd Live at Pompeii and yes we stood in the middle imagining them playing, and sadly Scott didn’t play the air guitar. 

Of course we visited the Lupanare (the brothel) which is tiny I am sure it was bigger 30 years ago and there were more paintings of the menu on the wall, well if we all use our imaginations I think we can add to this or maybe you will see it already there -I like that position. There are many gems to see but the best frescos are in the Villa of the Mysteries with scenes of Dionysian with lots of drinking and dancing and other suspect happenings. There are the fast food restaurants 79 AD style and bakeries and vineyards. Then there is the amazingly preserved Stabian Baths that still have the reliefs on the ceiling and frescoes around the pools. The Gladiators Barracks was an amazing space and the smaller theatres and we nearly missed the Forum baths because from the outside it almost looks like a dead end tunnel but contains so much. 

By five o’clock our legs were starting to protest so we glanced over our shoulders and said goodbye (lucky we were not Lot’s wife) and caught a train back to Naples which was packed to the gills with some interesting (dodgy) individuals. We ended up eating seafood at a restaurant in the piazza outside our rooms and then picked up a bottle of red wine which broke the bank at 2.50 euros, so which will I blame for being sick in the morning seafood or the wine? 