Day 271 Saturday 15th October 2016 – Naples

The day is overcast, very muggy and hot so it seems sensible to head to another ancient site to walk around. Got the same train on the Sorrento line to Ercolano which is before Pompeii, it is here you find the ancient town of Herculaneum that was buried under approximately 20 metres of ash when Mount Vesuvius erupted. It is a much smaller site to walk around and can be viewed from the high vantage point before you enter to buy tickets. We had already brought a combined ticket with Pompeii so we walked down onto the site which is interesting in its own rights. About 75%!o(MISSING)f the town is still buried and now built over with the modern city, well by ancient terms. 

One of the best things to see is in House Number 22 with its beautiful mosaic Summer triclinium (reclining dining area) and nymphaeum (fountain). Most of the best mosaics and frescoes are in the Museum in Naples that we saw yesterday. Down near the small stream that now runs through the site is the boat houses and it is here that a lot of skeletons were discovered possibility waiting for evacuation by sea but perishing instantly by fulminant shock caused by temperatures of about 500 Celsius. 

Walked back up the hill to the train station and jumped on the packed train heading back to Naples. 

Late Saturday afternoon sitting in the piazza having a beer and watching life in this part of Naples, well 3 children aged between 4 to 8,2 boys and a girl who as kids do were getting into mischief. It started with throwing stones at each other and then at the passing cars and then onto the statues in front of the building across the road, now we know why all the statues in the museums are missing their noses. I was looking to the waiters who were doing their best impression of “I see nothing” when an old lady walked past – I knew she would sort them out. She called out to them and pointed, I have never seen 3 kids scatter so quick, amazing the power of old Italian ladies, then a police car went by with flashing lights so she seems to have had some help. The cops were not worried about those naughty children or the 10 to 12 year olds zooming up and down the one way street on motor scooters with no lights on or helmets. I would hate to see the emergency ward at the hospital which our waiter had no long finished saying are hopeless and that is where you go to die as it is run by the mafia. He said the mafia is no longer like the movies with guns on the street they now run all the government services like the hospitals and garbage collection so nothing improves. 

We have been having some great seafood meals here and tonight is another good one with mussels, clams, prawns and calamari. 

It is good to hear Scott using the words incredible and I can’t believe I am here over the last few days so I guess Naples gets a tick from both of us.