Day 268 Wednesday 12th October 2016 – Florence to Naples 

I may have warned Scott about Naples but secretly I am so excited to be returning, I loved it and hope it lives up to those memories. First we have to get there, grabbed a bite at the station and waited to board our train, it was another high speed one that took 3 hours. The train got to speeds of 299 km/hr as we whizzed through the countryside arriving in Naples at 2.08pm. Exiting Naples train station landed me back 30 years into the chaos and grittiness, this is not a pretty city on the surface but once you look a little closer you see the charm, while making sure you are not hit by a motor scooter. 

Our hotel is situated in old Naples behind the Napoli Cathedral in Piazza Sisto Riario Sforza. As you turned into the Piazza you are met with the huge monument Guglia Di San Gennaro and lots of apartments overlooking it and it would not be Naples if the neighbours weren’t hanging over the balconies screaming at each other. We walked to the back just before the side gate to the Cathedral passing the rubbish, graffiti and the occasional rope with a basket attached so things can be pulled up to the apartments. The rooms of our small hotel are located in an old apartment building on the 3rd floor which obviously does not have a lift and initially looked on the rustic side as you walk up but when you get to the rooms they are modern and quiet. This is the Italy I love with its rustic charm and busy hum of society. 

We were met by the owner Luigi who made us feel welcome, we got settled and then went for a walk around the neighbourhood having a quick look at the Cathedral which is amazing but we will come back for a better look later. Eventually found a place to eat just near where we are staying which has a Banksy on the wall “Madonna with a pistol” this is an interesting diversion from a truly bad pizza. I had a mushroom one that had 3 pieces of slimy mushroom while Scott had one that was meant to have peperoni, basil and olives which actually had no peperoni, one leaf of basil and no olives but we both got a ton of cheese, well, guess where we are not eating tomorrow. 

On the way back home we stopped for supplies 3 beers and a bottle of wine, I took pot luck and choose a wine from the Puglia region which had no price but how expensive could it be as I had seen it in every shop in the area. Went to the cashier who showed us the price on his calculator well the blood drained from Scott’s face and he blubbered to me “how much, what is your wine worth”. I looked at the price and thought wow that is cheap 4.60 euro poor Scott thought it was 46 euro, of course my main worry now was my wine only cost 1 euro how rough is this going to be, I want to wake up tomorrow. 

The place we are staying has an amazing rooftop terrace that overlooks the cathedral one side and Mt. Vesuvius on the other with hundreds of TV aerials in between WOW. So we sat there to enjoy the view and indulged in a drink or two, before doing some final planning as our trip is coming to an end. 
