ENVIRONS OF NAPLES
Lago Miseno rising to a peak above the sea; it took its name from a trumpeter of Eneas, who according to Virgil was buried there. Augustus made a port called by the same name in order to give refuge to the Roman fleet in the Mediterranean. It had three basins, the principal of which Mare morto, a crater of an ancient Vulcano. Between Cape Miseno and Mount Procida is Miliscola where the soldiers manoeuvred. Several inscriptions found there tell us the name of those soldiers and sailors who carried off the prizes. From Cape Miseno yon can almost touch the two islands of Ischia and Procida so near are they to the continent; they are originally volcanic, and once formed only one. They abound with thermo mineral waters , and are a charming villeggiatura in summer. A regular service of steamboats between Naples and the islands is an attraction to visitors being able to go forwards and backwards twice a day. From the Epomeo, or (Mount St. Nicolas) is seen a beautiful view of the three gulfs of Gaeta, Naples, and Salerno. 
Baja, The temples of Diana, Venus and Mercury, or Truglio, the Baths of Tritoli (hot mineral water) and the stoves of Nero which are supposed to have communicated with these baths. From Baja one returus to Naples through the town of Pozzuoli one can see the pillars of the Bridge of Caligola. The Cathedral situated on a height looking the town occupies the site of a temple of Augustus of which the colums ornamenting the church formed a part. In the interior is the tomb of Pergolesi. Arrived at Bagnoli , instead of turning to the left you may drive towards the hill coasting the sea. The building on the right contains an important chemical manufactury. Half way up is the Grotto of Sejano made by Locullus to have a direct communication between his villa aud the island of Nisida. On the other side are to be seen the ruins of the Villa of Lucullus or Pollio. After passing the barrier at the turning of the street is the Church of St. Maria del Porto where is the tomb of the Poet Sannazzaro. Although we have treated this excursion so that one would think it might be done in one day, we advice travellers to divide it into two, devoting the first day to the more important part, that is Pozzuoli, Baja, Cuma, and the second to Agnano and Posillipo. Provisions are necessary to carry after. 