MOUNT VESUVIUS. 
Places should be booked overnight at Messrs. Thomas Cook and Son's office, Piazza dei Martiri. Their carriages take passengers to the station at the foot of the cone, from whence the ascent is made by the funicular railway, the property of Mr. John M. Cook. The inclusive cost is 25 lire. Visitors who do not desire to make the ascent will find it enjoyable to go as far as the Hermitage to view the lava beds. THE ASCENT OF VESUVIUS BY RAILWAY. 
The ascent of Vesuvius has been rendered much easier by the funicular railway which has been made up the steepest part of the cone. Before reaching the Observatory a new road leads off to the right, at the base of the cone, to the station; here the rail is taken, which puts one down within one hundred yards of the summit. The start from Naples is made at 8.30 a.m. in the winter and 7 a.m. in the summer. The trains start running at 10 a.m., and cease at 4 p.m. Special arrangements can be made for night service. The new station of the railway which ascends to the summit of Vesuvius is situated on a level spot on the west side of the mountain, about half an hour's walk from the Observatory. The constructers of the railway have adopted the American double iron-rope system. There are two lines of rails, each provided with a carriage divided into two compartments, and capable of holding ten persons. While one carriage goes up the other comes down, thus establishing a counterpoise which considerably economizes the steam of the stationary traction engine. The incline is extremely steep, commencing at 40 degrees, increasing to 63 degrees, and continuing at 50 degrees to the summit. Every possible precaution has been taken against accident, and the railway itself is protected against possible flows of lava by an enormous wall. The ascent is made in eight to ten minutes. To obtain the necessary supply of water, large covered cisterns have been constructed, which in winter are filled with the snow that often falls heavily on Vesuvius. This snow is quickly melted by the internal heat; and besides the water thus obtained, the frequent rainfall is also conducted into the cisterns. An elegant cafe restaurant, capable of accommodating one hundred persons, is attached to the station. Above the entrance to the latter is an ample terrace supported on columns, whence an enchanting view is obtained, not only of the Gulf of Naples, but also of those of Baise and Gaeta, each dotted with its islands, while to the north spreads the luxuriant plain of Caserta, bordered by the distant Apennines. The funicular railway up to the crater of Vesuvius is in full working order, and is a great success. It is 896 yards long, and the carriages are so constructed that, rising or descending, the passenger sits on a level plane, and whatever emotion or hesitation may be felt on starting, changes, before one has risen 20 yards, into a feeling of perfect security. The motion also is very gentle, and the effect is magnificent, if not, indeed, grandly awful, as, when hanging midway against the side of the cone, one looks from the window directly upwards or downwards along the line, which, its slight incline alone excepted, is perfectly perpendicular. Dismounting at a little station at the summit, one can scarcely be said to clamber to the edge of the crater, for the company have cut a convenient winding path, up which all, except the aged, heavy, or feeble, can walk with ease. For the exceptions the usual helps and chairs can be obtained. The upper station is 3,885 feet above the sea-level, and 1,302 feet above the lower station. The crater is 4,197 feet above the sea. There is a good restaurant at the lower station. 