4. CLIMATE. 

The following notice on the climate of Naples has been kindly communicated by an eminent English physician, who practised there for many years.
It will prove acceptable to visitors and assist them in the selection of a residence. 

"The climate of Naples may be called tonic and bracing, in comparison with that of Rome, which is soft and relaxing; and, if we were to compare it with any place in England, it most nearly resembles that of Brighton; although, of course, the temperature is much higher in the former than in the latter place.
Like Brighton, the autumns are delightful, and the spring months, February and March, often very trying to delicate lungs, from the cold dry winds which then prevail." 

"Naples, however, is neither subject to the same degree of cold in winter nor the same heat in summer as either Rome or Florence; during the two hottest months of the year (July and August) the heat of the sun is so tempered by the sea and land breezes, that the thermometer seldom rises to 84° of Fahrenheit and is often below 80°, while in winter it seldom falls below 40°.
Snow seldom falls in the town of Naples, or, if it does, it melts immediately; but it often lies on the surrounding Apennines for weeks or months, and it is when the wind blows from these snowcapped mountains that the air is coldest and most trying to delicate constitutions.
These winds are most prevalent in the months of Feb. and March, and these are the months of the year when the mortality is greatest; while, on the othr hand, those of June, July, and August, when the heat is the highest, are perhaps the most free from illness, since the habits of the inhabitants lead them to work early in the morning and late at night, and to rest during the heat of the day; so that they are seldom exposed to the excessive heat of the sun. 
The time when the heat is most felt is during the prevalence of the scirocco winds, for then the sea and land breezes are for a time suspended; but these winds seldom last for more than three days, and, though enervating for the time, they leave behind no bad effects."

"The greatest quantity of rain falls during the first two or three weeks of September; during the months of June, July, and August there is little or none, and by the end of the last of these months the grass is nearly burned up by the heat; but as soon as the rains fall everything revives, and from the end of September till the middle or end of December the climate is that of an English summer; and this is the season when the superiority of the Neapolitan climate over that of Rome is the greatest.
In Feb. and March, on the other hand, the weather is usually very variable, and N. or N.E. winds prevail; circumstances which render these two months very trying to delicate lungs; and it is generally understood that the climate of Rome, which is softer and less variable, is then preferable in such cases." 

"There is a prevalent opinion in Rome that the sulphureous vapour from Vesuvius is injurious to consumptive patients who reside at Naples: this, however, is quite at variance with the fact that the Neapolitan physicians send their patients from Naples to Santo Iorio, a place situated at the bottom of the mountain, and find that they do better there than in the city. 
As to the localities in Naples most suitable to invalids, travellers have little choice; for the only situation where houses fit for foreigners to inhabit can be found are in the quarter of the Chiaia and Sta. Lucia.
Of these, the best are to be found from the Crocelle on the E., along the Chiatamone and Riviera di Chiaia, to where the road of the Mergellina and Piedigrotta separate on the W.
These houses have a southern aspect, and are protected by the Vomero and Pizzo Falcone from the N. and N.E. winds, and when the lungs are sound no situation can be more agreeable; but where pulmonary affections exist, the streets which are situated behind the Riviera di Chiaia, and consequently farther removed from the influence of the sea, are considered preferable, although they are generally of an inferior description, as to accommodation, to those in the Riviera di Chiaia. 
The houses best suited to such invalids are in the Vico Carminiello, the Strada San Pasquale, the Strada Santa Teresa, and Chiaia.
Those on the quay of Santa Lucia are much exposed to the N.E. and easterly winds, and therefore very unsuitable to invalids, except during the autumn and late in the spring, when they are very agreeable and cheerful, from their facing Vesuvius, and overlooking the city and the eastern portion of the bay.
What has been said of Santa Lucia is equally applicable to the few houses which are to be had in the Mergellina; they are cold in winter, but very agreeable in the autumn or early in summer. 
Houses built upon the tufa rock are generally considered to be damper and less healthy than those which are at a distance from it; but this, if true, only applies to the rooms in the rear, which are generally occupied by servants or used as kitchens; and a long experience would scarcely bear us out in saying that these occupants are less healthy than their more comfortably located masters." 

Notwithstanding this favourable report of the climate of Naples, it must be acknowledged that of late years it has proved far from healthy to foreign visitors; and it is an indisputable fact that many British and American visitors have contracted fevers which have ended fatally in Rome and Florence on their return journey.
This can be traced to the parts of Naples they have inhabited, the neighbourhood of the Chiaja and of the Largo della Vittoria, where many of the hotels most frequented by strangers are situated, and which have been rendered pestilential by the drains which run near them to empty themselves into the sea close by. 
This nuisance, now in process of being removed, is especially due to the opening of a main drain opposite the Piazza della Vittoria, the contents of which, spreading themselves over the sea when there is little movement in its waters, give rise to a most disagreeable and unwholesome effluvium.
It so happens, therefore, that often this most fashionable quarter of the city is mach more unsalubrious than the most confined quarters of the old city.
The remedy for this evil is, however, in the hands of the municipal authorities: by flushing the main drain from time to time and by carrying its mouth farther into the sea, so that its outfall will at all times be some feet below the level of the water. 