The Excursions which may be made from Sorrento, and especially by a pedestrian, are of great interest and beauty. 

The Capo di Sorrento, which is so conspicuous an object from the town, and forms the W. extremity of the bay, of which the Punta di Scutolo is the N.E. headland, is within the compass of a walk.
The road leads round the cliff to the point of the Cape, the whole of which is covered with Roman remains, some of baths, and others of a Temple of Hercules. 

The ride to the Conti de' Fontanelli and to the Arco Naturale, a picturesque natural arch, of which part only remains, as it fell in 1841, commands a magnificent view of the Bays of Naples and Salerno, comprising within its range, on the Salerno side, the islands of the Syrens, the coast of Amalfi, the site of Paestum, and the promontory of Licosa in the distance. 

Another fevourite ride is to Arola and the Camaldoli. Arola, a picturesque village, with a ch. upon a hill, is reached in about 2 hours.
W. of it is Pergola, near which is a cliff commanding an extensive panoramic view of the Plain of Sorrento and the Bay of Naples.
On the S.E. is Sta. Maria a Castello, 4 hours, approached through a chestnut forest, and situated on an eminence commanding a glorious view of the Amalfi coast and of the Bay of Salerno.
From one of the projecting rocks near it one looks down almost perpendicularly upon Positano, which stands at least 2000 ft. below.
A long winding descent by stairs leads to it from S. Maria a Castello.
On the 15th of August, when there is a great Festa at Positano, parties from Sorrento go to S. Maria a Castello to look down in the evening at the illumination at the former town, which seen from this spot has a magic effect.
The suppressed convent of the Camaldoli, now belonging to the Giusso family, is about half an hour's walk from Arola, through a chesnut-wood.
Those who wish to vary their ride back to Sorrento may return by the pretty village of Albero, and thence descend to Meta. 

The walk or ride to the Scaricatoio, the little landing-place on the Bay of Salerno, is also full of beauty.
The most direct road ascends through lanes, planted on each side with orange and olive-trees; but another, about 1 m. longer, by the Conti de' Fontanelli, is more interesting.
The distance is about 3 m. to the Conti di Geremenna, which is the lowest part of the chain, and from which there is a splendid view over the Bay of Salerno, the Galli Islands, and the opposite coast from Eboli to Cape Licosa, with the whole of the Piano di Sorrento on the other side, and Vesuvius and Naples in the distance.
The descent from the top of the ascent to Scaricatoio is very rapid and the road so bad that it had better be performed on foot, which will require three-quarters of an hour. 

The ascent of Monte Sant'Angelo can be accomplished from Sorrento; but one can only ride as far as Moiano, whence the steep ascent on the bare side of the mountain must be made on foot. 
After reaching the plateau of the beech forest the mules may again be remounted, where there are immense pits or reservoirs for the snow, used at Naples in such large quantities, which will be well worth visiting.
As the excursion will occupy the whole day, the traveller should start early, and carry his provisions with him. 

A short ride (2 1/2 m.) to the Deserto, a large Carthusian monastery, suppressed by the French.
It is built on one of the elevated points of the mountains behind Sorrento, and commands a magnificent view of the two bays, Capri, the hill of S. Costanzo, the plain and town of Massa.
Sorrento, its Piano, and the convent, are now completely abandoned, and its extensive church and buildings falling into ruin.
Near it is the pretty village of S. Agata, a favourite expedition from Sorrento, from which it is 2 m. distant.
The ride from S. Agata to the Telegrafo di Mare Cuccola is very beautiful, but the finest point is from a rocky headland, called Sopra la Vaccina, about 10 minutes' walk from the telegraph; it commands the small bar of Positano, the Conti de' Fontanelli, the rich plain of Sorrento, and the bays of Naples and Salerno.
About 1 m. E. of S. Agata is the village of Torca, supposed to occupy the site of the Greek city of Theorica, celebrated for its temple of Apollo, and still the scene of an annual religious festival, to which the peasantry walk in procession from Sorrento, precisely as their ancestors did to the temple of the Greek divinity. 
The ancient custom of the inhabitants to supply the persons who join in the procession with bread and wine is still binding on their descendants.
Torca is at a considerable elevation, and overlooks the western portion of the gulf of Salerno.

Another interesting ride of about 3 hours is by a mule-path over the mountains to the S.W. of Sorrento, to the Marina di Nerano, supposed to derive its name from a temple of the Nereids, a picturesque cove near the entrance to the Gulf of Salerno, below Mt. S. Costanzo.
At this place a boat may be procured to visit the ruins at Crapolla, a wild and picturesque recess in the mountains about 3 m. farther E.
On our way we have a fine view of the Islands of Vivara and of the Syrens.
Crapolla may have derived its name from an Ara Apollinis which stood hereabouts.
Close to the landing-place there are ruins of reticulated masonry, with a well in the centre, and some vestiges of an aqueduct.
On a precipice near them, but higher up the hill, are the ruins of the ch. of S. Pietro and its little convent.
The ch. is built in the style of the Roman basilica, the 8 columns which separated the nave from the side-aisles being connected together by a series of arches.
Of these columns, which are now fallen and broken, 6 are of Greek marble, and 2 of granite  there is no doubt that they were taken from an ancient temple. 
The outer walls are in part formed of coarse earthen vases resembling those of the Circus of Romulus at Rome, and were introduced for the purpose of diminishing the weight of the building.
The interior still retains traces of paintings.
An inscription on the W. wall records the repair of the church by an Abbot Bartolommeo, in the year 1490.
Good pedestrians may ascend from here to Torca and S. Agata and thence descend to Sorrento; but as the path is very steep and rough, the best course will be to ride from Sorrento, through S. Agata, to the beginning of the descent to Crapolla, which must be made on foot.
At Crapolla a boat can be had to go to Nerano, where the donkeys ought to be sent from S. Agata.
The Islands of the Syrens may be visited from Crapolla, from which they are about 1 1/2 m. 

Short and delightful rides can be made to the Piccolo S. Angelo, the Monticchio, &c. 

Another excursion of great beauty, which must be made on horses or donkeys from Sorrento, is to Massa Lubrense and the Punta della Campanella.

To persons whose time is limited we would suggest the following excursions, during which they will be enabled to see much of the finest scenery about Sorrento: to the Deserto; from there to the village of St. Agata; thence to the Telegrafo di Mare Cuccola, the height called Sopra la Vaccina; ascend to the Piccolo S. Angelo; and from there descend through the olive and orange-groves to the Hotel Belvidere, 10 minutes' walk E. of Sorrento.
As this excursion will require at least 6 hours, tourists will do well to provide themselves with lunch, and some wine for the guides, who will have a hard day of it.