4. POPULATION. Naples contains upwards of 500,000 inhabitants, and is the most populous city in the kingdom. The titled nobility are very numerous; a few of them are wealthy, but the majority are as poor as they are fond of show and parade. The lazzaroni, who used to figure so prominently in travellers ' descriptions, and who were considered to constitute a distinct race, are nothing in reality but the very lowest classes of the population, idle and houseless. They have of late years been very much reduced in numbers. The boatmen and fishermen are a singularly industrious and hard-working class, and the amount of labour they will undergo in such an enervating climate is astonishing. Though abstemious and frugal, they are "a merry, joyous race, with a keen relish for drollery, and endued with a power of feature that is shown in the richest exhibitions of comic grimace." "If Naples," says Forsyth, "be a Paradise inhabited by devils, I am sure it is by merry devils. Even the lowest class enjoy every blessing that can make the animal happy, a delicious climate, high spirits, a facility of satisfying every appetite, and a conscience which gives no pain.... Here tatters are not misery, for the climate requires little covering; filth is not misery to them who are born to it, and a few fingerings of macaroni can wind up the rattling machine for the day." The revolting though thoughtless brutality exhibited by cart and cab drivers has long shocked the visitor to Naples, but of late years the Italian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has been at work, and it is to be hoped that some reform in this matter may be effected. Naples is the noisiest city in Europe noisy, not from the rattling of vehicles alone, but from the eternal cracking of whips, and screeching of the human voice. "The shrieks and howls that denote fresh vegetables, oranges, boiled shell-fish and roasted chestnuts are varied, it is true, but equally unendurable. When they pause the barrel organ, whose internal apparatus is entirely out of order, or the street singer, is always at hand. The tongues of the Neapolitans are the most active part about them, and they consider an hour lost during which they are silent."