Pompeii 
At least three to four hours should be devoted to the visit, which should be repeated as often as time and opportunity permit. Tourists are recommended to visit the National Museum at Naples (p. 36) before visiting Pompeii. Starting from the Porta della Marina, the first visit is to a small Museum, which contains vases, amphorae in terra-cotta, bronze vessels, carbonised food, skeletons, casts of men and women, arranged in three rooms — entrance free — then a steep street, the Via Marina, leads to The Forum. The principal streets of Pompeii (six in number) led up to the Forum, which was, as in every Roman city, the centre of all the life of the place. It is surrounded on three sides by Doric columns of limestone, 12 feet high. Above this colonnade there was formerly a gallery. The area, 530 feet long by 112 feet broad, is paved with large slabs of stone. Twenty-two ornamented pedestals for statues adorned the area, and the effect must have been imposing. The statues were in honour of Emperors and Pompeian citizens, and some still bear dedicatory inscriptions. On the west side of the Forum is the Temple of Apollo, the patron goddess of Pompeii, the largest and finest Temple in the city, an edifice of early origin, but restored after the earthquake of a.d. 63. It stands on an elevated basement, in an open area, and is approached by a flight of steps. Surrounding it was a peristyle of forty-eight columns, forming a portico or arcade. These columns were originally Ionic, but were badly altered into Corinthian. In one of them there is a perforation made to receive a pipe, through which the water for the sacrifices flowed into a basin placed on a fluted pedestal. In front of the steps stands an altar. This altar was not adapted, some authorities contend, for sacrifices of blood, but only for the usual offerings to Venus — fruit, incense, and flowers. On the east and west sides of the altar is an inscription, recording the fact that the Quatuor Viri erected it at their own expense. On the walls under the colonnade were paintings in bright colours of dwarfs, pigmies, dancers, etc. Within the cella, the admirable fresco of Bacchus and Silenus was found. In the vestibule of the temple was found a much-mutilated statue of Venus, which by some has been considered to bear a faint resemblance in expression to the Medicean Venus.
