SORRENTO. 
Those not desiring to sleep at Capri can go on to Sorrento by the steamer in the afternoon. 
SORRENTO is celebrated as the birth-place of Tasso (1554), for its mosaic wood-work, and its position. The walks round are interesting, and command good views. There is nothing to see in the town itself. The walls of Surrentum (its ancient name) have long since disappeared; and other slight fragments magnified with the names Amphitheatre, Temple of Neptune, Villa of Pollius Felix, are of little interest. Tasso's statue now ornaments the principal street, and his house is an hotel (Hotel Tasso). About a mile and a half out of the town, off the Massa road, is the Vigna Sersale (fee, 50 c). From this site a truly enchanting panoramic view may be enjoyed. A delightful excursion, in fine weather, is by carriage to Meta and over the hills to Positano, then by the cliff road to Projano, whence by boat (about one hour) to Amalfi. Take lunch at the Hotel Tramontane, and order a carriage for Cas tellamare. One horse, 4 lire; 2 horses, 7 lire, inclusive. 
THE DRIVE from Sorrento to Castellamare is said to be one of the most beautiful in Europe, amidst orange and lemon groves, mulberry trees, and vineyards; aloes, figs, olives, and pomegranates at every turn; skirting under mountains and crossing ravines, passing picturesque villages and villas. This drive is best done from Sorrento to Castellamare, not Castellamare to Sorrento. We consider that it is over-estimated. On leaving Sorrento, a deep ravine is crossed by a bridge. Visitors should descend into this chine, which forms part of the Villa de Angelis. It is not only the most picturesque glen in this neighbourhood, but its natural formation is one of Nature's greatest wonders. We pass through the villages of Meta and Marina di Seiano. The latter has a picturesque martello tower. These towers were so called from the bells hung in these sixteenth century watch-towers, which, being struck with a hammer (martello), gave warning in times of danger to the inhabitants. From this is derived the name of the old round fortified towers on the English coast martello towers. The next village is Vico Equense. 