THE ISLAND OF CAPRI. 
The steamboat leaves Naples from St. Lucia between 8 and 9 a.m. Office, 34 Strada Molo Piccolo. Fare, 10 lire; embarkation and landing, 80 centesimi each. Do not go if the wind is east or north, as you cannot then enter the Blue Grotto. The island of Capri is 1,980 feet above the sea, and is noted for its scenery and as being the residence of Tiberius. "Caprese is an island disjoined from the point of the cape of Surrentum by a channel of three miles. 1 am strongly inclined to believe that Tiberius was taken with its perfect solitude. The temperature of the climate is mild in winter, from the shelter of a mountain, which intercepts the rigour of the winds. Its summers are refreshed by westerly winds, and are rendered delightful from the wide expanse of sea which the island commands" (Tacitus, "Ann." iv. 67)." At a distance of eight miles from Surrentum is Capri, famous for the Villas of Tiberius. The island is eleven miles in circumference" (Pliny, iii. 12). 

THE BAY OF NAPLES. 
It is only from the deck of a vessel that one can have any idea of the beautiful situation enjoyed by Naples and its surrounding towns. The shore, the white buildings, the purple hills behind and the blue sky above (perhaps tinted by the smoke from Vesuvius), and the deep blue sea, all go to make up an unequalled picture. 

THE BLUE GROTTO. (Grotta Azzurra.) 
Boat from landing - place for one to three people, 1 1/2 to 3 lire. Entrance to the Grotto, 1.25 each. Time, two hours. Passing the slight remains of the Baths of Tiberius, we arrive at the entrance of the grotto, which being only 3 feet high, visitors must recline in the boat. The height of the interior is 41 feet, with 8 fathoms of water. Length, 175 feet; breadth, 100 feet. The blue reflection completely blinds the visitor at first; and objects in the water have a silvery appearance. The boatman will plunge in, if you wish, for a lira; but it is quite a treat to jump in oneself. The blueness is caused by the reflection of light. The morning steamer stops at the Blue Grotto, and then proceeds to the Grand Marina landing. Lunch at Restaurant de la Grotte Bleue. For visitors intending to make a stay, lunch should be had at Stanfords Hotel du Louvre, and bed ordered for the night. After lunch start off, with a boy as guide, for the VILLAS OF TIBERIUS. 