Naples
CERTOSA DI SAN MARTINO
In 1325 Charles Duke of Calabria began construction of what is one of the richest monuments in Naples. The Carthusian monks were forward looking, and from the 16th to the 18th centuries the greatest artists of the time worked at the Certosa (charterhouse) of San Martino. The original look of San Martino was gradually altered by Mannerist and Baroque rebuilding. The most radical redecoration and enlargement was carried out by the architects Giovanni Antonio Dosio, at the end of the 16th century, and Cosimo Fanzago, who took over in 1623. The 17th and 18th centuries brought further changes. The French deconsecrated the monastery in 1806, and since 1866 it has housed the San Martino museum, withdisplays of Neapolitan art and history.
Exploring the Certosa di San Marino and the Museum
From the outset the Carthusian monks intended San Martino to be a storehouse for Neapolitan history and civilization. The collections document the rich and varied forms of artistic expression found in Naples from the 15th to 19th centuries: from paintings to coral jewellery, traditional crib scenes (presepi), porcelain, prints and ivory carvings. There is also a fascinating collection of maps. Other parts of the museum are devoted to Neapolitan costumes, festivals and theatre. The minor arts section contains an interesting collection of glass from Venice and other European sources. Although a large part of the collections in the San Martino Museum is closed to the public as a result of restoration work, the beauty of the church, the Quarto del Priore (Prior’s Residence), the cloisters and the gardens will more than make up for what you miss.
THE CHURCH AND ITS SUBSIDIARY ROOMS
At the end of the 14th century, the prior Severo Turboli set up an elaborate plan for the complete restructuring of the San Martino charterhouse. The original Angevin church was enlargedand modernized and its Gothic structure almost completely disappeared under the multitude of frescoes, stucco-work and marbles produced by leading artists of the time. The most radical changes to the building were carried out in the 17th century by architect and sculptor Cosimo Fanzago, who worked at San Martino from 1623 to 1656. He designed the interior of the church and its lavish decoration. Coloured marble adorns the nave and chapels, such as in the Cappella di San Bruno. The rooms adjacent to the church are also richly ornamented. In the sacristy the panels of the beautiful inlaid walnut wardrobes contain 56 intarsia scenes with striking perspective effects (16th century). The fresco of The Triumph of Judith on the vault of the brightly lit Cappella del Tesoro was painted by Luca Giordano in 1704.
HISTORICAL SECTIONT
hese interesting rooms dedicated to the history of the Kingdom of Naples are temporarily closed to the public. Paintings, furnishings, sculptures, medallions, arms and memorabilia recreate the key moments in the political, social and cultural history of Naples,from the Aragonese to the Bourbon dynasties. The importance of this valuable collection is exemplified in two famous works that combine historical and artistic documentary significance: The Revolt of Masaniello (see pp22–3), painted in 1647, and Piazzadel Mercatello during the 1656 Plague, both painted by Micco Spadaro.These dramatic compositions tell the story of two important events in the history of 17th-century Naples. They are also an accurate and usefulrepresentation of what the city looked like at that time.
THE NATIVITY SCENES
Only towards the end of the 19th century did the presepe or nativity scene start to be considered an artistic genre in its own right, worthy of a museum. This section of the San Martino museum has one of the most important public collections of its kind, with displays of entire nativity scenes as well as individual figures,such as Mary and Joseph, the Three Kings or the shepherds. Animals and accessories, such as the crib, are also displayed. Among the most important nativity scenes is a creation by the Neapolitan playwright, Michele Cucinello. Many of the statuettes were executed by famous Neapolitan artists. Blind Beggar with Cataracts (c.1780), in the Perrone Collection (see p39), is by the artist Giuseppe San martino, who sculpted the Veiled Christin the Cappellat Sansevero (see p63).
NINETEENTH-CENTURY NEAPOLITAN ART
This collection of paintings and sculpture also displays pieces that are significant from both an artistic and historical standpoint. The collection consists of purchases made by the Italian government but owes its strength primarily to donations of important private Neapolitan collections. All the schools of painting that flourished in this area during the 19th century are represented here. A recurring theme was the Campania landscape, a favourite with local artists. The paintings usually depict a serene and beautiful landscape, such as in Giacinto Gigante’s Panorama of Naples Viewed from the Conocchia. Among the pieces of sculpture, those by Vincenzo Gemito are not to be missed. Il Malatiello (The Sick Child) and Testa della Popolana (Head of a Peasant Woman) portray the expressive intensity characteristic of this artist’s work.