Eat 
Pizza 
Pizza comes from Naples. Look for pizza margherita, the original one, with nothing more than fresh tomatoes, basil, fresh mozzarella and a little olive oil. Eating a pizza in Florence or in Rome is not the same as eating it in Naples! Here the dough is thicker (than in Rome, for example) and is a little chewy. In Naples every pizzeria makes a decent pizza. Some places display the label “Vera Pizza Napoletana” [“True Neapolitan Pizza”] with a Pulcinella mask baking a pizza in a stylized Vesuvio, which indicates that the pizzerria follows the standards of the Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana [True Neapolitan Pizza Association]. If you want to try “the” authentic Neapolitan pizza, go to Pizzeria Brandi, where the pizza margherita was born (a stone is exposed outside the restaurant explaining the history of the first pizza). The pizza dough and tomato sauce are perhaps a little more delicate here than in other places, and it certainly offers a nice escape from the madness of the Quartieri Spagnoli or Centro Storico, but there is better pizza and far more reasonable prices to be found elsewhere in the city. And really, the “ gritty ” and irregular character of the dough in this town are what make Pizza Napoletana what it is! Today the best choices would be Trianon or especially Da Michele. Both these pizzerias make authentic pizza Napoletana, but are located near Forcella, which some might not be comfortable walking around at night. In particular, Da Michele has a unique feature: they only do pizza Margherita or Marinara (just tomato, garlic and oregano, and a splash of oil, of course!). They say that these two kinds are the original pizza: if you add too much toppings you ’ll lose the real taste of the pizza, which should be very simple, made only of a good, thin base, good tomatoes and fresh mozzarella. Note that there is usually a queue at these restaurants Some other places that are very popular among the Neapolitans are almost all the pizzerias in Via dei Tribunali, in particular Di Matteo, Il Presidente [Dec 2013: closed?], Sorbillo, and his sister, a few doors away (informally known as “la vecchia” [the old lady], from the owner of the pizzeria, a very small place with only 4 or 5 tables, that looks like a pizzeria of 50 years ago — very hard to find, but it’s worth it!) In general it is easy to find a good pizzeria, just look for one without tourists! General Cuisine Neapolitan cuisine in general features much seafood, befitting its status as an ancient and still functioning port. You will find many sauces based on garlic sauteed in extra-virgin olive oil, tomatoes, and local red wines. Some of the more popular sauces are arrabbiata (“angry”) or fra diavolo (“Brother Devil”), which means they will contain hot pepper. It ’s great cuisine. Enjoy! Mozzarella is also typical of the region, you should not miss the opportunity to taste the fresh real one! Sweets The city and region are also famous for their pasticceria (pastries). Pretty much anywhere that serves coffee will have some pastries, nutella-filled croissants or other sweets available.