Genoa
Do
There are plenty of things to do in Genoa. A lot of young kids spend their time playing with their friends in public pools and share ice-creams in the summer time. There are a lot of paintings in the town and on the brick floors which a lot of people admire. Fishing for catfish is also a hobby most people have.

Learn
You can study Italian with native Italian teachers at inlingua Genova (http://www.italianingenoa.com), located in the heart of the historical center. They offer a wide range of courses to students af all ages and levels. You can see reviews of them on the coursefinders website.

Italian Language classes Lingua Madre Cultural Association. Lingua Madre offers a wide range of courses, in a friendly atmosphere, where you can quickly learn Italian and make new friends.

Italian language courses organised by Scuola Tricolore. Whether you are interested in group or individual courses, in the morning, afternoon or evening, Scuola Tricolore offers high quality tuition and for those interested accommodation and leisure activities. Courses available in the morning, afternoon and evening.

Italian Luanguage School A Door to Italy - the ideal school for foreigners who like to improve their language skills. You can ask for private teachers and personalized lessons even outside of the schoolfacilities.

Buy
Genoa is great for shopping. You have the designer boutiques, department stores, food shops, and antique dealers.

Downtown, for those who want luxury boutique browsing, you can find some world class fashion-related shopping along Via XX Settembre, starting from Piazza Ferrari.

There are a lot of small, picturesque and tourism-related shops in the centre. These are mainly in the central squares and the small alleyways. You can find souvenir stalls, kiosks selling books and snacks, sailor-themed stalls, traditional flea markets, modern and antique furniture dealers, little bookstores and tiny art galleries.

There is a large shopping center called Fiumara located near Genova Sampierdarena train station. To reach Fiumara, take a local train to Genova Sampierdarena station and exit the station. Turn left and go under a bridge, near which there is a sign to the left for Fiumara. The shopping center is visible from the other side of the bridge and is about 10 minutes walk. The mall can also be reached by car or bus routes 1,2, 4 and 22. The mall is open from 9AM-9PM Monday - Sunday. Nearby there is a theater and activity center which includes a pool hall, bowling alley and restaurants.

Eat
The vast majority of places charges service for a fixed amount per person (called coperto), as is custom in Italy. A trattoria, cafe or bar will not charge this fee for lunch, and this is often a good place to get pasta or a sandwich in the afternoon. Restaurants are open from approximately 12:30 - 3:00PM for lunch and 7:30 - 10:00PM for dinner.