Hong Kong
What to Do 
Shopping 
Inflation has taken its toll in Hong Kong. While it’s no longer the bargain shopping destination it once was, there are still some good buys to be had. Since Hong Kong is a duty-free port and charges no sales tax, goods are cheaper here than in the country where they were made. On photographic equipment, electronic goods, and watches, you avoid the luxury tax payable in your home country. Specialty goods and souvenirs, often handmade, come from Hong Kong and elsewhere in China. Custom-made garments by skillful Hong Kong tailors are still much in demand and cost less than elsewhere for comparable garments. Note that alcohol and tobacco are both exceptions to Hong Kong’s duty-free regime and are subject to tax. You’ll find that prices are about the same in Hong Kong Central and Kowloon, and somewhat cheaper in Causeway Bay, which caters to local shopping. Large shops on the fashionable thoroughfares tend to be more expensive than smaller “family” shops tucked away in the side streets. Stores do not open until 10am or later, but shopping goes on into the evening, up to 9:30pm. Most shops are open seven days a week. Shops in Central are an exception; they generally close at 6pm and are not open on Sunday. The only holiday on which all commerce comes to a halt is the Chinese New Year in January or February. Buyer Beware. Be aware that name brands, including electronics, are sometimes fakes, glass may be sold as jade, and that antique you bought may have been made last night. Always ask for a receipt that records information about the item, and if you buy an antique, be sure to get a certificate of authentication. Needless to say, avoid peddlers who approach you on the street and offer to take you to wondrous bargains. The large department stores have fixed prices, but elsewhere you should ask whether there is a discount, especially if you buy several items in one shop. Compare prices before you buy any significant item. Always ask to see the manufacturer’s guarantee when purchasing watches, cameras, and audio-visual and electronic equipment. Note that when haggling, the merchant assumes you are prepared to pay cash. If, after concluding a deal, you try to pay with a credit card, he may then boost the price in order to cover the card charges. It is advisable to shop at outlets that are members of the Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA), identified by a red junk logo. Membership imposes an obligation to maintain standards of both quality and service, and provides dissatisfied customers with an officially recognized channel for redressing complaints; the number to call is Tel. 2508 1234. Pick up a copy of HKTA’s “The Official Dining, Entertainment & Shopping Directory” in which all member stores are listed. Shipping. Many stores will pack and ship purchases. Ask if automatic free insurance is provided. If the goods are very valuable or fragile, it is a good idea to buy an all-risk insurance for the shipment. Packages sent to the US or to Europe generally take six to eight weeks by surface mail, and one week by airmail. Shopping Areas. Major shopping areas are Tsim Sha Tsui in Kowloon, especially along Nathan Road; Central on Hong Kong Island, particularly for upscale designer goods; Causeway Bay for slightly better prices; and the Hollywood Road area. Department Stores. Look for Lane Crawford Ltd., an upscale store with branches at Pacific Place, 70 Queen’s Road, and Harbour City; Wing On, one of the oldest in Hong Kong; Marks and Spencer; and the Japanese department stores, Mitsukoshi, Sobo, and Seibu. Malls. Hong Kong is full of giant malls. Harbour City, just west of the Star Ferry Terminal in Tsim Sha Tsui is one of the largest; Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, is Central’s biggest mall, with retail outlets and department stores; Times Square is a collection of retail outlets in Causeway Bay. In addition, most top-line hotels have upscale malls full of designer boutiques. Factory Outlets. These stores sell excess stock or factory overruns. Hong Kong is no longer a factory outlet center since much of its clothing manufacturing has moved elsewhere. There are factory showrooms in the Pedder Building, 12 Pedder Street, in Central. Markets. Markets are the places to use your bargaining skills. Hong Kong’s most famous and colorful market is the Temple Street Night Market near the Jordan MTR stop. Every conceivable kind of goods is sold here: clothing, all kinds of electronics, CDs, souvenirs, crafts, and jewelry. Stanley Market is located on Hong Kong’s southern coast, and is well-known for all kinds of clothing, including silk and cashmere. Bargain, and carefully examine any merchandise you buy here. The Jade Market, on Kansu Street in Yau Ma Tei, is known for both jade and freshwater pearls. This is not the place to make expensive purchases, but it’s great for inexpensive pendants, earrings, and gifts.