Naples
Get in
For transport in the area see Campania.

By train 
On the Circumvesuviana Napoli-Sorrento line it takes 30 to 40 minutes to get to Pompeii from either Naples or Sorrento. If in Naples Central Station get to Circumvesuviana section by following signs, the entry is outside the station, main exit, there is a dedicated entry (like a subway entry with rain cover) go down and to the left. The Naples-Sorrento train arrives at platform # 3. Enter Pompeii in the TO option on this link to see the train timetable . It should cost €1,80 to €3,20. You can also get ticket for the way back. Get off at "Pompei Scavi (Villa dei Misteri)". There are fast trains and slow trains (the fast trains stop at fewer intermediary stops, they all stop at Pompei). The ticket office will give you a timetable with all the trains if you buy return tickets and the fast trains are marked. At the station, you can leave your bags for €1,50 (collect by 7:00PM in summer, 6:00PM October to February), or leave them for free at the ruins (pick up by 7:20PM). The entrance to Pompeii is about 50m away from the station and there's a Tourist Information office further down the street. [If you get off at "Pompei Sanctuario," (This station is no longer accessible - 2014) instead of "Pompei Scavi," the walk through town is not very far; it's tiring but worthwhile.] The train from Naples gets very busy at Napoli Garibaldi/Napoli Centrale and is generally standing room only. If you want a seat, get on the train where it starts at "Napoli Porta Nolana - Corco Garibaldi", one stop before Napoli Centrale. Similarly the train back from "Pompei Scavi" is very busy. Get on it and change after one stop at "Torre Annunziata" where the much quieter Poggiomarino-to-Napoli line also operated by Circumvesuviana stops.

Cheapest way to get here from Rome - take the special (2h21m) train from Termini (each way is 11.20 Euros) or the regular (1h10m) train (each way is 22 Euros, 29 for first class) to Naples. Beware: these prices increase significantly if you purchase within 24-36 hours prior to your date of travel to Naples, so buy ahead. After arriving in Naples, go down the escalator to the Circumvesuviana and buy a ticket to Pompeii Scavi (2.90 Euro). The service from Naples to Pompeii is notoriously terrible at abiding at following timetables. The general delay is around 20 minutes for every train, so take this into consideration when planning transfers.
From Salerno you can take the local train service to Pompei. There is a lot of confusion about where the train stops and how long the walk is from the station. There is only one suitable station on the train line (it is different from the other train services mentioned above) and it is called "Pompei". A ticket from Salerno costs €2.10 one way and the journey either takes 25 minutes (fast service) or 45 minutes (slow service). The Pompei train station is quite a long way from the main entrance to the historic site, but is only a ten minute walk (700 meters) from the Piazza Anfiteatro entrance (from the station walk 150 meter straight ahead until you see the church, turn right keeping the church on your right hand side into the Via Roma and walk this street for 600 meters to the entrance). Taxi drivers at the train station will offer to take you to the entrance for around €10.

By bus 
SITA runs buses from Naples. The cost is the same as the train.

Day Trip from Rome 
Pompeii is a popular day trip excursion from Rome and many operators in the city offer day trip/tour packages with round-trip transfers to hotels in central Rome.

By boat 
If you are on a cruise, you can set up an excursion to explore the ruins (bus transfer) and tickets and tour will be included. From the cruise boat a hydrofoil travels around the Bay of Naples to Capri, Sorrento and Pompeii (from Naples). A bus-shuttle will take you to the ruins.

Disability 
Disabled travelers should aim for the entrance at the Piazza Anfiteatro, where an itinerary has been designed to meet the needs of visitors with reduced mobility (and of parents with strollers, too!). Beware of the main entrance at Porte Marina, for it has plenty of stairs.