Naples
The Big Sights 

Museo Archeologico Nazionale 
Housed in a 17th century palazzo the Roman discoveries from Herculaneum and Pompeii make this Italy’s best archaeological museum. Spread over 4 floors there is a great breadth of ancient content here from marble busts to perfectly preserved mosaics. Some of the most famed exhibits are from the Farnese collection. The Farnese family of Parma included Alessandro Farnese who ruled as Pope Paul 111. In the 16th century. The collection includes enormous marble sculptures including the Farnese Bull. The museum has a controversial room dedicated to ancient pornography and erotica uncovered at Pompeii and Herculaneum – the most infamous of which is Pan making love to a goat! 

Duomo 
A huge thirteenth century Gothic cathedral which is dedicated to the patron saint of the city - San Gennaro. There are celebrations of the miracle of the liquefying of San Gennaro’s blood held 3 times a year here – in May, September and December. The legend is that when Saint Gennaro’s body was transferred to the Duomo in 305AD two phials of his congealed blood liquefied in the bishop’s hands. The inside of the Duomo is far more splendid inside than out. There is an ornate frescoed chapel dedicated to San Gennaro inside the cathedral which contains phials of his blood. Downstairs is a crypt which houses fine examples of Renaissance art. 

Santa Chiara Cloisters 
The interior of the basilica that was originally built here on the south side of Piazza del Gesu was destroyed by fire after being bombed in the second world war. It has since been reconstructed, but the main reason to visit here is for the original 14th century cloisters. These frescoed covered walkways with their gardens of lavender and orange trees provide a cool calm oasis from the chaotic streets outside. The majority of the cloisters are decorated with majolica tiled seats and columns depicting various scenes from rural life.  

Certosa di San Martino 
Take the funicular up to the Vomero district to visit the Certosa – the most visible building in Naples. Originally a 14th century monastery, the site now contains an excellent museum, church, cloister and gardens with fantastic views. The sumptuous baroque church has a well displayed collection of 17th and 18th Neapolitan art and sculpture, and the beautiful cloisters lead onto an art gallery which includes a sculpture of Madonna and Child by Bernini. The eclectic collection at San Martino includes a large crib and nativity scene and the Tavola Strozzi – a 3D depiction of the city as it looked in the 15th century. 