Buy 
Naples is famous for its outdoor markets and small shops (the city has an impressively high number) and that is where many tourists prefer to spend most of their shopping time. However, it also has other retail establishments of note, such as shopping malls and wine vendors. You can find expensive, upscale items, rare antiques, handcrafted clothing and souvenirs, and just about anything else you are looking for in Naples — and much of it at prices much lower than in Western European nations. A selection of some of the most popular and worthwhile places to shop while touring Naples is given below: La Torretta Market, located within blocks of the U.S. Embassy in the Mergellina district, is a covered market with both stalls and adjacent shops. You will find an abundance of fresh produce, specialty cheeses and meats, fresh seafood, a pasta store called Casa del Tortellino, a bread store, and a chocolate store at the entrance. You can also pick up flower bouquets, wine and cleaning supplies. Via San Gregorio Armeno is a narrow alleyway in Naples' Centro Storico that English tourists frequently refer to as Christmas Alley. Here you will find the famous Neapolitan nativity sets for sale; exquisitely crafted figurines of wood or terracotta and handmade manger-cribs. You can also find other craft items like representations of Pulcinella and Neapolitan Tambourines. The via is open year-round, and is very popular among tourists. Poggioreale Market is the largest market in all Naples, having a total of 566 stalls. It gets rather crowded, but if you arrive early in the morning, you can shop "with more elbow room." The most distinctive attraction here is footwear, and the market is often called Shoe Alley. There are good deals to be found on shoes, boots, and handbags. Should you feel faint from hours of hard shopping, it is good to know that vendors are on-site selling water, coffee and various snack foods. The Naples Antiques Market runs along Naples' seaside promenade known as Lungomare, which is a foot-traffic-only street traversing one of the most beautiful parts of Naples. You will find an incredibly extensive array of antiques that can literally take hours to fully explore. The Naples Flea Market is open only twice a year, typically once in April and once in November. It is located in the very large Mostra d'Oltremare convention center. The Scriptura Leather Shop, on Via San Sebastiano, is a traditional-style seller of Florentine leather products, including laptop bags, albums, diaries, wallets and belts. I Coloniali provides you with fine Italian wine and chocolates, while Grangusto both sells wine and serves it, along with full meals, at its bar and restaurant. On Via Toledo, you will find shops selling the most fashionable of Italian clothing brands. On Spaccanapoli, there are many high-end outlets selling shoes, suits and jewelry. The number one mall in Naples is the gigantic Centro Commerciale Auchan on Via Argine. Here, you will find a nearly exhaustive array of goods all conveniently brought together under one roof.