Do 
Naples has an abundance of attractions and activities that await its annual tourists. There is no way to list them all here, but below are some of the most popular things to do in Naples: Stop by the Piazza del Plebiscito, which sits near the Gulf of Naples and between the Royal Palace to the east and the Church of San Francesco di Paola to the west. Colonnades stretch along its edges, and there are many famous buildings within short walking distance. Occasionally, open-air public concerts will be held in the piazza. Visit Lake Agnano, which is not a lake but once was. The lake, which occupied the crater of the now-extinct Agnano volcano, was drained in 1870. On the southern rim of "the lake," you will find natural sulphur-vapor baths and a cave called Grotta del Cane nearby. Attend a football (soccer) match at Stadio San Paolo, the home field of the local team, called the Napoli. The stadium was first constructed in 1959 but renovated in 1989 to host the 1990 World Cup. It is the third-highest capacity stadium in Italy, holding over 60,000. Relax in the Villa Comunale, a park on the bay built on land reclaimed from the sea. The park dates back to the 1780's and was originally the royal garden of King Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies. The park has much greenery, a playground, a mini roller rink, and the Anton Dohrn Aquarium, which was built in the 1870's. Another park to relax in is the Villa Floridiana in the Vomero Quarter. You will find plenty of trees and flower gardens along with a neoclassical house dating from 1819. The park is named after Ferdinand I's wife who was Duchess of Floridia. On the grounds, you can also visit the Duke of Martina National Museum of Ceramics. The Centro Sub Campi Flegrei is a diving/snorkeling center set on the shore of the Gulf of Naples. It is not far from the offshore Phlegraean Islands and lies within the bounds of the Archaeological Park of Baiae, which is the site of underwater archeological finds known as the submerged Pompeii. The diving center is open all year round. Attend the Open Air Cinema Festival during the summer in the Viale del Poggio di Capodimonte. It is "cinema beneath the stars" that takes place in an amphitheater surrounded by an artificial lake. Take a guided tour of the city or nearby locations, either on foot, by limo, by motor scooter, by private car or by bike. There are urban routes to the historic center, the panoramic Vomero Quarter and throughout the city. There are day tours based in Naples that go to nearby Vesuvius, Pompeii, the ruins of Herculaneum and along the beautiful Amalfi Coast. You can also take an underground tour of the Catacombs of San Gennaro, to see the remains of ancient Christian tombs. Experience life as a local, through the eyes of a local. Visit Naples and its surroundings in a unique way.