Naples 
Eating/drinking 
That the Italians have a love affair with food is no secret. Extremely high quality, local seasonal ingredients, cooked simply and how “ mama used to make ” is the key to the food the Italians love to make and eat. The tomatoes grown in the area surrounding Naples benefit from the rich volcanic soil and help to make the best sauces for pasta, and of course the topping for pizza for which the city is famed. Pizza is available everywhere in Naples – by the slice – to take away from the windows of trattorie all over the city and in the city ’s cafes. Every September Naples holds a pizza fest when pizzaiola chefs compete to make the best pizza. In 2006 rather than a Neapolitan it was Makoto Onishi - a Japanese chef who was crowned best pizza maker. The pizza tradition is protected in Naples – and there is an association – Associazione Vera Pizza Napoletana set up to protect its ideals. Traditional pizza has to be cooked in a wood burning oven. The 2 purest forms are the simplest – the marinara – with a very simple topping of just tomato, garlic, oregano and olive oil – and the margherita which has the colours of the Italian flag – tomato, mozzarella and basil. Other street food includes focaccia (doughy flavoured bread), deep fried vegetables and arancini – a type of meatball. The region is also famed for its creamy mozzarella di buffalo soft cheese made from buffalo milk. Naples has some bustling fruit and veg markets and a fish market at Porta Nolana, where hard to please customers closely examine the produce and demand the best. All the best eating places in Naples serve Italian food. International cuisine is not well represented or widely popular, but is beginning to make its mark. Italians do not have a culture of going out to drink for drinking ’s sake – the focus is on socialising rather than drinking. That said, there are some lively bars and clubs in Naples – particularly around the Centro Storico. The Italian beer is Peroni or Nastro Azzurro. Rather than go for a kebab at the end of a big nights partying the youth of Naples pick up a fresh cornetti – a croissant – which can be filled with cream or chocolate from cafes and bars which bake late-night batches of these sweet pastries. Campania – the region in which Naples sits makes some fine wines, which carry Italy ’s top quality rating; Full bodied red wines from Taurasi and Aglianico del Taburno and white wines – Fiano di Avellino and Greco di Tufo. Falanghina is the most popular white. There are both traditional and fashionable wine bars called entoca throughout the city. The region is also known for its limoncello – a sweet yellow lemon liqueur. Closest to the Neapolitan heart and responsible for a racing heartbeat if drunk to excess is strong black short espresso caffe. Served in very small cups and sweetened with sugar, its drunk standing up at the bars of the 100s of cafes within the city. There are usually a few tables and chairs to sit and take your time, but you pay extra to use these. Cappuccino is only ever drunk in the morning. The Neapolitan cake is sfogliatella – a flaky pastry will with ricotta cheese, cinnamon and candied fruit – either soft or deep fried crispy. And of course there ’s ice-cream. As much an event as a dessert – fantastically good gelato (ice-cream) is available in gelaterie – who specialise in making dozens of flavours – usually on the premises.  