Essential information
When to go and weather
May is arguably the best month to visit Naples and the surrounding area. The days are generally warm and the city buzzes with a string of special events. Among these is Wine & The City, a two-week celebration of vino, food and the art of living, as well as Maggio dei Monumenti, a month-long festival packed with cultural offerings, from art exhibitions to themed walking tours.
June and September are also good bets, with summery days tailor-made for sightseeing and enjoying Naples' inimitable street life.
Most Neapolitans take their annual break in the searing heat of August, during which many of the city's restaurants and shops close for two to four weeks.

Getting around Naples

Non-resident vehicles are banned in much of central Naples, though there is no need for a car as a visitor. The city centre is relatively compact and best explored on foot. Furthermore, Naples is generally well served by buses, metro and suburban trains, trams and funiculars.

TIC (Ticket Integrato Campani) tickets – available at kiosks, tobacconists and vending machines – are valid on all city metro, bus, tram and funicular services, including Circumvesuviana and Cumana trains within the Naples city zone. The TIC biglietto integrato urbano (€1.50,90 minutes) allows for only one trip on each mode of transport (except buses) within 90 minutes of validation. The TIC biglietto giornaliero integrato urbano (€4.50, daily), valid until midnight from validation, allows for unlimited travel on all city buses, trams, metro trains and funiculars.

The city's various transport companies offer their own tickets, for use on their services only. For example, ANM – which runs city buses, the four funiculars, and metro lines 1 and 6 – offers a €1 single-use ticket. State railway company FS (Ferrovie dello Stato) runs metro line 2, offering a €1.20 single-use ticket for use on that metro line.

Health and safety
Comprehensive travel insurance to cover theft, loss and medical problems is highly recommended.
Some policies specifically exclude dangerous activities such as scuba diving, motorcycling, skiing and even trekking: read the fine print.
Check that the policy covers ambulances or an emergency flight home.
Find out in advance if your insurance plan will make payments directly to providers or reimburse you later for overseas health expenditures.
If you have to claim later, make sure you keep all documentation.
Paying for your airline ticket with a credit card often provides limited travel accident insurance – ask your credit card company what it is prepared to cover.
Worldwide travel insurance is available at www.lonelyplanet.com/travel-insurance. You can buy, extend and claim online anytime – even if you’re already on the road.
