Hong Kong
Sports 
Participant Sports Beaches. In subtropical Hong Kong you can swim from April to early November. There are more than 40 beaches in Hong Kong that are free to the public. Most have lifeguards on duty from April to October, changing rooms, toilets, and snack stands. On Hong Kong Island, Repulse Bay is the most popular; others are Shek O on the east coast and Stanley and Deep Water Bay on the south coast. They are very crowded, especially on summer weekends. On the outlying islands, Cheung Chau and Cheung Sha are on Lantau, and Hung Shing Ye and Lo So Shing on Lamma; inquire about water pollution levels. Golf. The Hong Kong Golf Club (Tel. 2812 7070) welcomes visitors to its three 18-hole courses at Fanling in the New Territories, or the 9-hole course at Deep Water Bay. The Discovery Bay Golf Club on Lantau island (Tel. 2987 7273) has an 18-hole Robert Trent Jones Jr. course, open to visitors Monday, Tuesday, and Friday. Many Hong Kong residents and visitors take the express train to Guangzhou to play at the Guangzhou Luhu Golf and Country Club (Tel. 2317 1933 in Hong Kong or 020-8350 7777). The 72-par course was designed by Dave Thomas. Hiking. In the New Territories the famous MacLehose Trail stretches 97 km (60 miles) from Sai Kung Peninsula to Tuen Mun. The Lantau Trail is a 69-km (43-mile) circular trail on Lantau Island that begins and ends at Silvermine Bay. Both trails are divided into smaller segments of varying difficulty. Maps of hiking trails are available at the Government Publications Center, Low Block, Government Offices, 66 Queensway in Central. HKTA also has trail maps and sponsors the Guided Nature Walks, led by rangers, that include hikes in all the different regions of Hong Kong. Jogging. Victoria Park has a jogging track in Causeway Bay. Sailing. Because of the heavy harbor traffic, only sailors licensed by the Hong Kong authorities can run pleasure boats in local waters. Contact the Hong Kong Yacht Club at Tel. 2832 2817 for information. Taijiquan (Tai Chi). HKTA offers lessons in these exercises that improve concentration and balance at Garden Plaza, Hong Kong Park, Admiralty (Tel. 2058 1234). Tennis. There are 13 public courts at Victoria Park Tennis Centre (Tel. 2570 6168), near Tin Hau Station. Spectator Sports Horseracing. All levels of society share a feverish interest in the Sport of Kings. The racing schedule is September to June, and Hong Kong maintains two tracks — the older Happy Valley course on Hong Kong Island and the striking Sha Tin track in the New Territories. The Hong Kong Tourist Association runs a “Come Horseracing Tour,” which includes entry to the Hong Kong Jockey Club visitors’ box and members’ enclosure, and a buffet-style meal. Cricket. The Hong Kong International Cricket Series, held in late September, brings teams from all over the world. Rugby. The Rugby Sevens sees teams come together from all over the world for 15 matches in March or early April. Children’s Hong Kong Hong Kong has many attractions that appeal to children of all ages. Hong Kong’s many beaches are especially fun for children. Children love riding on Hong Kong’s antique trams. A ride on the Peak Tram is sure to provide a thrill, and in the Peak Tower they’ll enjoy the Peak Explorer ride and Ripley’s Believe it or Not! Ocean Park (see page 32) is popular with children of all ages. There’s a special Kid’s World that those under 12 can enter free when accompanied by a paying adult. The more daring can try out the terrifying roller-coaster rides. Hong Kong’s state-of-the-art interactive museums will interest children of all ages. The Science Museum in Tsim Sha Tsui East allows children to get their hands on over half of its 500 exhibits, while the nearby Space Museum has regular screenings on an enormous Omnimax screen in its Space Theater, making the night sky come vibrantly alive. For children who love boats, riding the Star Ferry or ferry trips to outlying islands will be exciting, and the Dolphin Watch trip (see page 113) is certain to appeal. If you plan to visit during May, the carnival atmosphere of the Cheung Chau Bun Festival, with its high bamboo-and-paper towers covered in sticky buns, will fascinate the young ones.