Hong Kong
What to Buy Antiques. 
Hollywood Road in the Mid-Levels above Central is the most famous antiques street in Hong Kong. Look for fine Chinese bronzes, embroidery, lacquerware and porcelain, tomb figures, and wood carvings, among other possibilities. The experts point out that it is not age alone that determines a Chinese antique’s value — the dynasties of the past had their creative ups and downs. For serious antiques, try Honeychurch Antiques at no. 29 for furniture and silver, Tai Sing Company at 122 for porcelain. For fun you can visit the Low Price Shop at no. 47 or the Cat Street crafts stores and flea market. Brocades and Silks. Fabrics from China are a bargain and well worth taking home. Chinese-product department stores stock silk fabrics, silk scarves, finely embroidered blouses, and traditional padded jackets. Chinese Arts and Crafts is at Pacific Place in Central, and in Star House in Tsim Sha Tsui; CRC Department Store is on Hennessy Road in Causeway Bay. For fabrics, also try Western Market, Morrison Street, in Central. Cameras. Photo buffs know that Hong Kong is the place to buy some of the world’s most advanced photographic equipment, and there are some real bargains around. However, be sure you compare prices and models before buying. Two reliable places to start looking in Lan Kwai Fong are Photo Scientific in the Eurasia Building and Hing Lee Camera Company, 25 Lyndhurst Terrace. Carpets and Rugs. Hong Kong is a mecca for Chinese hand-knotted wool carpets and silk rugs. Hong Kong’s stores are usually able to arrange shipment. Caravan at 65 Hollywood Road and the shops in The Silk Road at Ocean Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are good places to start looking. China (Porcelain). In Hong Kong you can have a plate, or even a whole dinner service, hand-painted to your own design. Factories in Kowloon and the New Territories, producing traditional and modern china, are geared to entertain and instruct visiting tourists; prices are appealing. Two of the largest places to go are the Wah Tung China Company in the Grand Marine Industrial Building in Aberdeen; and the Overjoy Porcelain Factory in Block B of the Kwai Hing Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, in the New Territories. In antiques shops, look for highly valued porcelains from China. Note that because of the duty-free situation, good bargains may be found in European china, including Spode and Wedgwood. Electronics. The latest gadgets are sometimes available in Hong Kong before anywhere else. Before you begin shopping, pick up HKTA’s “Shopping Guide to Consumer Electronics. ” Prices on electronics have risen in the past two years; check prices at home before you buy here. Nathan Road has many electronics shops. Also check out Star Computer City in the Star House near the Star Ferry terminal. Furniture. The choice ranges from traditional hand-carved Chinese rosewood furniture to well-made reproductions of modern Western styles. Rattan furniture is highly popular. Hollywood Road has several furniture shops. Queen’s Road East in Wan Chai is a furniture manufacturing and retail area. Jade. “ Good for the health” is just one of the many magical qualities that are attributed to these beautiful emerald-green or turquoise stones. Real jade is extremely expensive, and you may be offered counterfeit jade, which looks exactly like the genuine article. Some people say you can test the authenticity by touch — real jade feels smooth and cool. Alternatively, you can shine a lamp on the stone — real jade shows no reflected light. Better still, go shopping with an expert. Jewelry. Thanks to the duty-free situation, prices in Hong Kong are lower than they are in some other places. You can buy gemstones loose or set, or have them made up to your own design. Popular purchases include diamonds and freshwater pearls. If you do plan to buy jewelry, be sure to consult the “Shopping Guide to Jewellery” published by the Hong Kong Tourist Authority to find a reputable dealer. Kitchen Equipment. Woks and any other gadgets essential for Chinese cookery make good purchases. Department stores sell all sorts of intriguing kitchen equipment. Leather Goods. Leather is not a great bargain in Hong Kong. Locally made items do not live up to their European models. However, the leather garment industry is growing, and there is a wide range of locally produced leather accessories, all at extremely attractive prices. For European imports, you will pay top dollar. Musical, Audio, and Video Equipment. Hong Kong has a vast range of the most high-tech audio-visual, sound, and screen equipment. Before purchasing, visitors should make sure of compatibility with systems in their own countries. Be sure to look around and compare before buying. Whatever you buy, you may be able to work out a discount. Ready-to-wear Clothes. Hong Kong’s shops carry almost every recognizable European and many American labels, from top-end designers to the moderately priced or trendy. Nathan Road, Central, and the hotel malls are places to look. There are still a great many factory outlet stores with reasonable prices. You’ll also find bargain clothes for sale at the markets and on push-carts. Tailoring. Tailor-made clothes are not as popular in Hong Kong as they were in the past, but hundreds of shops still remain. Local tailors are experts when it comes to producing custom-tailored garments for both men and women, and are also adept at copying patterns. The result can be a quality suit at a fair price — but made-to-measure clothing is not cheap. In choosing a tailor, look for HKTA membership. Many tailors have Web sites or are listed on Web sites. Tea. Shops all over town will sell you gift tins of exotic blends. If you want to learn something about tea, go to the Tea Shop at 149 Hollywood Road, or the Moon Garden Tea House at 5 Hoi Ping Road, Causeway Bay. The owners will brew up a pot so you can taste before making a choice.