Hong Kong
Watches. 
The saying “Time is money” is quite literally true in Hong Kong: more is spent on watches and clocks here than on cameras and optical goods. An enormous variety of makes and models are on sale. Be sure to get the manufacturer’s guarantee stamped or signed if you buy a watch. Entertainment Day and night, the action goes on in this vibrant city. To help you choose a nightlife scene, pick up a copy of Hong Kong Tourist Authority’s dining and entertainment guide for listings, or just simply wander through the maze of neon signs and take your pick. Hong Kong Diary published weekly by HKTA tells what’s happening in the arts. Hong Kong Life is published by the Hong Kong Standard on Sunday, and the South China Morning Post has an entertainment section on Friday. Culture buffs are well catered to, and there is always a varied program of events, ranging from world-class concerts to local amateur dramatic productions. A highlight of the arts calendar is the annual Hong Kong Arts Festival, a three-week dose of international culture in February, with concerts, recitals, plays, jazz, Chinese opera, and innovative productions put on by leading talent from both East and West. Tickets for the shows must be reserved well in advance. The Festival of Asian Arts takes place every other October, bringing to Hong Kong for two weeks orchestras, dance groups, opera, and drama companies from all over Asia. There are more than 30 cinemas in Hong Kong, and the latest Western releases are shown in some of the larger ones. English-language films have Chinese subtitles. Films with Mandarin dialogue also have Chinese subtitles, for the benefit of Cantonese speakers, and sometimes subtitles in English. The Hong Kong International Film Festival takes place in April. More than 200 films from all over the world are shown at this two-week event. Ask at City Hall center about advance reservations. The Performing Arts Performance Venues. The theaters in the Hong Kong Cultural Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are the main venues for concerts and opera. Other performance centers are the City Hall cultural complex, with exhibition halls and theaters that present concerts, plays, and films; the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts with two major theaters for dance, drama, and concert performances; and the Hong Kong Arts Centre in Wan Chai, where both local and visiting groups perform. Other centers for concerts, plays, and entertainment are Sha Tin Town Hall and Tsuen Wan Town Hall in the New Territories. Larger arenas, including the Queen Elizabeth Stadium, the Hong Kong Coliseum, and the Ko Shan Theater in Kowloon play host to various concerts, pop concerts, sporting events, and variety shows. Classical Music. The Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra performs new and traditional works; a wide assortment of traditional and Chinese instruments are featured. The Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra was founded in 1975. Under its conductor, David Atherton, it offers Western classical works and new works by Chinese composers in a September-to-June season. Chinese Opera. Cantonese opera is alive and well in Hong Kong, and the two other forms, Beijing and Kun, are sometimes presented. To most foreigners, this unique art form is likely to be inscrutable at first exposure, but everyone can appreciate the spectacle and the elaborate, glittering costumes. Although the music may seem strange to the unaccustomed ear, it certainly won’t put you to sleep; cymbals and drums guarantee your alertness. Dance. Hong Kong’s three professional dance companies — the Hong Kong Ballet Company, the Hong Kong Dance Company, and the newer City Contemporary Dance Company — perform regularly, often at the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts. Theater. The two leading local troupes, the Chung Ying Theatre Company and the Hong Kong Repertory Theatre, perform in Cantonese; there are English-language performances at the Fringe Club theaters, 2 Lower Albert Road, in Central. Puppet Shows. The classic Chinese puppet is the shadow puppet, manipulated behind a screen by three rods, but hand puppet and marionette shows are also on offer, often for free at public parks and playgrounds. Nightlife Hong Kong by night can suit any taste — riotous, sedate, raw, or cultured. Note that sometimes there is a cover charge of HK$50 to HK$200 at clubs, which may or may not include a couple of drinks. There are nightclubs in the principal hotels, with bands, dancing, and floor shows. Many restaurants and bars have live music. Jazz fans will find live jazz presented by international artists at the Jazz Club and Bar, 2/F, 34-36 D’Agular, Central; and at the Blue Note in the Kowloon Shangri-La Hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui. The Frin ge Club, 21 Lower Albert Road, Central, is Hong Kong’s best-known alternate entertainment venue, with jazz, rock, and other live music, in addition to a gallery for visual arts. Bars with views and live music include Sky Lounge in the Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Tsim Sha Tsui; and Cyrano in the Island Shangri-La in Pacific Place. Pubs are numerous. In Tsim Sha Tsui, Ned Kelly’s Last Stand on Ashley Road is an Aussie institution; Delaney’s, 71-77 Peking Road, is one of Hong Kong’s enduring Irish pubs. The clubs and bars of Wan Chai, long the center of seedy nightlife, have become almost respectable. Joe Bananas, 23 Luard Road, is a Wan Chai mainstay for all-night partying. Rick’s Cafe, 78-82 Jaffe Road, is a long-time disco that’s still popular. A lot of the raunchy action has moved across the harbor to Tsim Sha Tsui East; this is also where you’ll find pricey hostess clubs, popular with Japanese tourists, but definitely not for those on a budget. Today’s trendy spot is Soho (SOuth of HOllywood) around Hollywood Road, Elgin, and Stauton streets. Soho, along with the Lan Kwai Fong area, is popular with chuppies (Hong Kong yuppies) and has a lively bar scene. Causeway Bay also has a variety of bars and clubs. TOTT’s, in the Excelsior Hotel, is a restaurant with live music and dancing and a harbor view. Japanese karaoke bars have now become extremely popular with the locals. There are a number of these on Chatham Road South and around Cameron Street in Tsim Sha Tsui. Nightlife tours are offered by a number of companies. The most typical of these are harbor cruises, usually including dinner and dancing on board an air-conditioned floating nightclub. There are evening bus tours that include visits to a restaurant and night spots; some tours combine a Chinese banquet with a visit to an open-air market and the panorama from Victoria Peak. 