Naples
Contrary to what newspapers, books and movies seem to suggest, the local mafia (Camorra) poses little or no threat to tourists, since it is involved in activities like prostitution (which is illegal in Italy), racketeering and drug trafficking. People in Naples are extremely nice and gentle, ready to help if you are in difficulty or lost. It is not uncommon for Neapolitans try to make themselves understood with words and gestures, even if they do not speak a tourist's mother tongue. Being very aware and proud of their town's beauties, if they understand you have a particular interest for a place, they may leave their activities and accompany you there and even show you uncommon places which are not publicized in tour guides. Aside from issues of petty crime, Naples is a very safe town for women. Official statistical data from ISTAT (the Italian Government Official Statistical Office) show that Naples' rape rate is much lower than that of other Italian cities like Milan, Rome or Florence. Young women who appear to be unaccompanied may experience some more or less persistent flirting from Neapolitan men, but you will usually be left alone if you show them you are not interested. Neapolitans are also typically very protective toward female family members and Neapolitan women, generally. It is therefore potential] unsafe, especially in a crowd, to insist on courting or asking out a local woman when she has made it clear she is not interested. Whoever comes to Naples historical city centre has to take some generic precautions, normal for any big town w1th poor areas: 
Do not leave valuables lying out in the open (such as bar tables) where they can be snatched by thieves. 
Do not ﬂash around money or other valuables. 
It is advised not to carry a purse as it can be snatched or "picked" by thieves. Neapolitan women who use a purse do not sling it across their shoulders but wear it across their chest. 
Do not wear expensive watches (especially Rolex). 
Do not wear expensive or ﬂashy jewellery. 
Do not use a costly camera or video camera. 
Do not wander down small dark alleys/streets, especially in the Spanish Quarter. 
Pay attention to fake public service vehicles. All legitimate means of public transportation are clearly identified by bein orange (buses); or white (taxis). In the latter case, legal taxis have a customary "Taxi" sign over the top, and bring ID signs over the sides an inside the cabin.
Be careful around the main train station as there are many thieves in the area. The Piazza Garibaldi, the large square in front of the station, is no place to spend more time than necessary, especially at night.
In Naples, you can buy over-the-shoulder packs that are excellent, as they allow you to keep an eye and firm grip on our valuables. 
Some persons pretend to offer images of old Naples or other things as gifts, but then expect payment. 
