Pompeii

Pompeii is in Campania, Italy, not far from Naples. Its major attraction is the ruined ancient Roman city of the same name, which was engulfed by Mt. Vesuvius in AD 79. This is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Understand
Romans took control of Pompeii around 200 BC. On August 24,79 AD, Vesuvius erupted, burying the nearby town of Pompeii in ash and pumice, killing around 3,000 people, the rest of the population of 20,000 people having already fled, and preserving the city in its state from that fateful day. Pompeii is an excavation (It: scavi) site and outdoor museum of the ancient Roman settlement. This site is considered to be one of the few sites where an ancient city has been preserved in detail - everything from jars and tables, to paintings and people were frozen in time, yielding, together with neighbouring Herculaneum which suffered the same fate, an unprecedented opportunity to see how the people lived two thousand years ago.

Tickets 
One-day tickets are €13 per adult; €6,50 for EU citizens between 18 - 24 and school teachers; EU citizens below 18 get in for free (valid proving age document needed - a photo of the document is usually acceptable - but most travellers will have photos of the group they are travelling with). A five-site pass costs €22. This includes Herculaneum and is valid for 3 days. As entrance to Herculaneum is also €11, buying this ticket saves you €2 even if you visit Pompeii and only Herculaneum and none of the other sites. However Pomeii is a huge place, if you want to discover it with the audio guide it can easily take one full day. The "Campania ArteCard"  , which costs €30 offers free admission to numerous sites in the region if you are planning to be in Campania for several days. The site is open daily from 8:30 to 19:30 (November to March from 8:30 to 17:00) and the last ticket is sold 90 minutes before closing. It is closed on 1st January, 1st May, and 25th December. The first Sunday of the month, Entrance is Free (started in August 2014). Telephone: 081-857-5347.

Audioguides are available only at the official entrance for €8, €13 for two (as of January 2017), ID is required. You have to return them by 17:00 to the same place you got them from. They are not available at the secondary Eastern entrance by the Ampitheatre - which is the entrance nearest the modern day town centre if you are walking.

Unofficial audio guides are on offer at one of the market stalls near this entrance (or at the train station InfoPoint). They will be offering a free map, which upon accepting, draws you into an opportunity to sell you the €5 audioguide. The standard sell will be that there are minimal markings, numbers, and signs of explanation inside. These are all false. However, as stated in the previous paragraph, there are no official audioguides in the nearby ampitheatre entrance, so this traveler suggests getting an unofficial one from the stalls if you do not want to walk all the way around to the other entrance. There are ample signs and numbers inside the site however, and many guides leading groups around that you can eavesdrop onto. The ampitheatre entrance also provides a map with each ticket, which the other entrance may not provide (on account of tourists that entered through the other entrance asking where my Red map came from).

Take note that audioguide maps are not the same and the official audioguide comes with more audio points of interest. It's a good idea to check out both options before deciding. Pompeii may take several hours to explore so make sure to ask about the audioguide battery life before your purchase. Tour guides also cluster near the entrance and offer their services. It's a good idea to talk to one for a couple of minutes before deciding, to make sure you can understand their accent when they speak English. You can join a tour group with the train station InfoPoint for €12 (not including entrance fee) or €10 at the official entrance.