Pompeii
Do

Plan your visit beforehand on Google Maps or Google Earth, or re-live it afterwards. Streetview coverage exists for part of the city and there are 3D models of many of the buildings. Bing Maps also provides fairly detailed oblique views of the city.
Buy a guidebook. Get the official guide (pompeii: guide to the site, published by Electa Napoli) from the site bookshop next to the ticket office. Lots of guides and maps are available but this one neatly combines the two. Currently (5 May 2014), the English language version of the guidebook is back in stock. The past and present book ("Pompeii As it was in the past and as we see it today" printed by Mondadori, is a useful alternative except the names on the map are in Italian and in this book are in English so can cause confusion.
Visit also the National Archaeological Museum in Naples (closed Tuesdays), where most of the best preserved mosaics and found items from Pompeii are kept. It is almost more helpful to do this first, as the site without the full guidebook is quite confusing unless you arrive knowing why it looks as it does and why the frescoes and artifacts are so important to understanding life in 79AD.
Visit also the sister site Herculaneum, which is only a couple of Circumvesuviana stops apart and suffered a similar fate to Pompeii. Though it is a smaller site it was covered by a pyroclastic surge (instead of the ash and lapilli that covered Pompeii). This allowed some second stories to survive.
If you have more days, visit also the wonderful villas: Oplontis (Torre Annunziata stop, one Circumvesuviana stop from Pompeii) or Stabiae (also by the same train.
Have a look at random villas, as sometimes even small side rooms have amazing frescoes (wall paintings).
Don't miss the "Garden of the Fugitives" at the south-east side where plaster casts of several victims (sadly, including children) are on display where they originally fell The plants in this garden have been reconstructed to match ancient growth, based on the study of plaster casts of plant roots.
Walk outside the City Gates to the Villa of the Mysteries, one of the greatest houses to come down to us from the ancient world. Even on a very hot day, it is worth the walk.
Ask one of the Archaeologists working on one of the many sites "Hasn't it all been dug?" (there is still 1/3 of the site unexcavated... and there is always more under the floor!)